---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/China/Session 4.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/china/session-4/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Tuesday, March 31st, 1925
Dick approaches Jack Brady silently and catches his attention. Brady is startled, but when Dick starts off by telling him they're friends of Jackson Elias and that they're here to deal with cults he listens - though with a hand on his gun. Jack agrees to talk to the group, if one of them agrees to act as collateral. Lawrence offers himself up and joins a Chinese associate of Jack named Chu Min in the tea house.

Brady leads the rest through winding alleys to a secret hide-out. There he lights a cigarette and he asks some questions about Jackson Elias and what the gang has been up to. After hearing of their exploits in New York, England en Egypt, he deems them on the level enough to [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Journals/China/Transcript of Jack Brady's Story\|tell them his own story.]]

The investigators and Brady talk a bit more about Jack's plans, and learn that he's attached himself to a private military organization - Firm Action - that is being trained for instigating a revolution through violent protests. Jack has been hired to train the soldiers in combat. He provided evidence to one of their faction leaders (Chu Min, in fact) that the Order of the Bloated Woman is killing innocent Chinese in obscene rituals, and that Aubrey Penhew is a lynchpin in this organization. Chu Min has allowed Jack to train a group of 30 soldiers to take along with him to raid Aubrey Penhew's lair, wherever that may be. Jack explains that he knows it's an island in the East China Sea, but any scouts have failed to return. The group rolls their eyes as they show him their sea map of Grey Dragon Island.

The group mentions Mei-ling's transfer to Ho Fang and ask if that has anything to do with him. Apparently this is news to Jack Brady and he goes off in a fit, claiming to arm himself and raid Ho Fang's mansion immediately. The crew manages to talk Brady down and explain the need of proper scouting and intel first. Brady reluctantly agrees. The investigators agree to scope out Ho Fang's mansion and his warehouse, and they'll meet Brady at midnight at one of Firm Action's armories to arm themselves. A joke is made about Matthias' sword.

Dick and Shark decide to scope out Ho Fang's mansion. They find it's a large walled-off compound with brick walls up to 4 meters high and tipped by spearheads. Shark sharkours up one of the adjacent mansions and gets a better vantage point. He sees that there are several roofs inside the compound that can be easily accessed from the top of the wall. There are also two courtyards which are being surveiled by watchmen. Shark further discerns that the south half of the compound appear to be servants' quarters, whereas the north half of the compound seem to be Ho Fang's living quarters.

Meanwhile Matthias and Lawrence check out Ho Fang's warehouse. They borrow a rowing boat and manage to locate a secret hatch underneath the pier. Matthias surges his strength and throws the hatch open, admitting entrance into a storeroom where all kinds of occult artefacts are stored - though none appear magical through the Voorish Sign. Lawrence listens at the only door and discerns 6 guards in the main warehouse. Luckily they also spot a staircase heading up over the storeroom and what appears to be a loose plank. They pile some crates up, pry the board loose, and climb up on the stairs that lead to the offices. Besides beige rugs it appears to be a legit business, but when they search Ho Fang's office they notice some items of interest.
- A sea map of Grey Dragon Island, but this with a geographical theme that shows the island to be a volcano
- A ledger that records shipments to the Penhew Foundation, Omar al-Shakti in Egypt, Ahja Singh in Kenya and Mortimer Wycroft in Australia. The last name is a new one!
- In a secret compartment in the desk, they also locate a vial of liquid that Lawrence identifies to be poison of the Giant Hogweed, which can cause severe pain, burns and blindness! They take it.
- An old stack of papers, which includes a [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/China Clues#[CH6] Telegram from Huston\|Telegram from Huston]]. This seems to confirm his presence in Australia, and points to Aubrey Penhew being the Pale Viper.

The two swiftly make their exit by the way they came, and reconvene with the rest at the Firm Action Armory at midnight!