---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ttrpg/call-of-cthulhu/masks-of-nyarlathotep/players/journals/england/session-1/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

The group prepares for their trip to England. Considering its strict gun laws, each investigator handles this in their own way: Dick gets a weapons import permit and a letter of recommendation from Lt. Poole in order to apply for a firearms license in the UK, Shark methodically disassembles his and Zasu’s gun to smuggle along in photocamera equipment, Lawrence permanently ruins his gun, and Elliot just brings a shotgun.

On the 6 day boat journey, Shark and Lawrence confine themselves to 2nd class while the rest of the group enjoys the luxuries of first class. They all meet some interesting people during the trip.

- Shark meets *Walt Dibney*, an American visiting his brother-in-law who owns a theatre in London. Walt is an excellent card player and he invites Shark to come watch a play some day.
- Lawrence meets *Walter Keyes*, an Englishman who sought his fortune in the USA several years back, but has made the decision to return to his homeland. Walter has some familiarity with the underbelly of London, and may prove to be a useful connection.
- Zasu meets the mystical *Madam Elvira*, an astrologist who caters to the rich and famous by performing a myriad of exorcisms and card readings. They bond over occult literature.
- Matthias meets the illustrious *Jimothy*, an upper class academic who is an expert on Arthurian historical studies. Jimothy is an illustrious character and may be more than he seems…
- Elliot spends a lot of time with *Cocktail Mark* at the bar, talking about cocktail theory and exchanging recipes. Cocktail Mark is trying to get his own brand off the ground and Elliot vows to help him gain notoriety.
- Dick meets his new nemesis: charismatic British detective *Cedric Bamford*. They engage in rivalry when trying to solve a mysterious event on the boat. The case was eventually solved by Cedric, who gained Dick’s hat and ire as a result.

---

### Dateline: Sunday, February 1st, 1925
The group disembarks at Southampton. Shark is amazed and confused about the driving styles in the UK. The group takes the train into London where they arrive at King’s Cross Station in the early afternoon. They take a taxicab to the *Savoy Hotel*, which Elliot knows to be the London equivalent to the Hotel Chelsea. They book double rooms, and decide to spend the rest of the day getting acquainted with the city. Dick buys a bowler hat, and this inspires everyone except Shark to also buy a new hat. Shark elects to buy a thick waterproof duster instead, as well as an umbrella. Matthias splurges on a whole new tweed wardrobe. Dick drops by a police station to put in his request form for a firearms license, and he’s told the processing will take around 7 days. Afterwards, the group heads to a pub to sit down and have a pint.

---

### Dateline: Monday, February 2nd, 1925
After a continental breakfast, the group heads to their first London lead: *Mickey Mahoney*, editor of The Scoop and acquaintance of Jackson Elias. They find the offices of The Scoop on the 3rd floor of a shabby building. The offices themselves are filled with filing cabinets, employees and a few printing presses. They find Mickey Mahoney to be an overweight, cigar smoking Irishman with a hot temper. They talk about Jackson and his untimely demise, and Mickey informs them that Jackson visited a few times last December. He said he was working on a juicy story about an evil cult with powerful connections, and that he would deliver the scoop to The Scoop when his research was done. At some point Jackson retreated his contacts with Mickey however, not answering any calls, and soon after Mickey found out Jackson was on his way to New York again. He never got more of the story, and also doesn’t know the name of the cult. Mickey can inform the group that Jackson was going through some old issues of the Scoop concerning the *Egyptian Murders*.

The group goes through the back issues themselves and quickly find a few articles relating to this so-called Egyptian Murders ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/England Clues#[EN1] The Egyptian Murders\|[EN1] The Egyptian Murders]]), which apparently have claimed the lives of around 16 people over the past 3 years, most of them Egyptian nationals. The group checks whether the murders have any pattern or correlation to moon phases, but find no such thing. Many murders occurred in Soho, but not so much that a pattern can be distilled. The group determines that method of murder is consistent with the ritualistic killings described of the Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh. Mickey recalls that Jackson mentioned meeting with *Inspector Barrington* but doesn’t know if and when that meeting took place. The group declines seeking contact with law enforcement at this point in time, given their recent experiences in New York. The group thanks Mickey for his time, and he lets the group know that they can always come back for more juicy stories.

After meeting with Mickey, the group quickly heads to The Times office to ask crime reporter Myrtle Woodrow about Inspector Barrington and his reputation. They learn that Inspector Barrington is known as a straight arrow who doesn’t do anything off the record or out of the books. They also learn that he has been on the Egyptian Murders case for a year now, after Inspector Munden went missing mysteriously. As far as Myrtle knows, there have been no major breaks in the case. After some discussion about the motivations of Egyptian immigrants to travel to London, the group leaves.

---

After lunch, the group heads to the Penhew Foundation. They find the building in central London, and it’s a grand high Victorian building that towers over its neighbouring buildings, despite appearing to only have 2 floors itself. There is a gate to the front door, but the building appears to be publicly accessible. Inside the grandiosity of the building is reflected even more in tall ceilings and polished marble floors. To the left and right of the entrance are several scholars working on their academic works. Matthias tries to sneak a peek but only sees Ancient Egyptian drivel. The group presents themself to the clerk at the front desk, and claim they’re wanting to mount an expedition to Egypt and would like to meet with *Edward Gavigan* to gain the Foundation’s support. The clerk, Fiona Carpenter, advises the group to head upstairs and view the Exhibition Hall while she confers with Mr. Gavigan’s secretary.

The group heads up ornate stairs and find themselves on the upper floor of the building, which is even grander than the ground floor. The ceiling easily reaches up to 6 meters high, and the entire floor is an open, pillared space with many neat rows of glass cabinets displaying many examples of pottery, papyrus, statues and even mummies. These all appear to be quite generic archeological findings, but the group does notice a lot of items have been found in *Dahshur*.

The group decides that this place is too normal, and that something must be up. Dick elects to wander off and starts snooping around the place. He heads back down to the ground floor using a staircase at the back of the building, and starts randomly opening doors. One door he finds locked, another leads to a staff room, and a third leads to a library where several administrators appear to be working. When asked if they can be of assistance, Dick claims he’s just looking for the bathroom. A guard appears to escort him just there. Meanwhile, Matthias requests to examine an old pot and is confined to an exam room. He finds the pot dull and unimpressive, and quickly leaves this object of study.

At this point, Fiona enter the Exhibition Hall and happily announces that Mr. Gavigan will see them in 2 weeks time. This is not good enough for the group, and they claim that urgency is required as their expedition might already be starting very soon. Fiona leads them to Gavigan’s personal secretary, *Thomas Kinnery*, to hash things out. They make their case to Thomas, but he remains entirely unimpressed. It’s at this point that Zasu decides to ramp things up and she presents the mask that the group found in the basement of the Ju-Ju House to show that they mean archeological business. Thomas decides to confer with Mr. Gavigan, and the group detects a spark of recognition in Thomas’ eyes when the mask was presented, and a level of excitement he is trying to hide. After a few short minutes, Thomas returns and proclaims that they can meet Mr. Gavigan the following morning, as he is very busy this afternoon. Elliot discerns that something doesn’t quite add up here: considering the urgency with which Thomas conferred with Gavigan, and the short amount of time this conferring took, he’d expect a meeting this afternoon and not delayed until the next day. The group suspects there might be an ulterior motive to this delay, and decide they must take precautions against unwanted followers.

As the group gets ready to leave the Penhew Foundation, Lawrence ‘accidentally’ drops his pocket watch in Thomas’ office. After a few minutes, he rushes back inside to retrieve it, and finds Thomas talking to one of the guards in a hushed tone. As soon as Lawrence enters, the conversation ends and the guard leaves the office. Thanks to his smooth personality, Lawrence is able to play off the ruse successfully without arousing suspicion with Thomas.

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 2\|Session 2]]