---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 5.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/england/session-5/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Wednesday, February 4th, 1925

After learning about the beating of the receptionist at the Royal Chester Hotel, Dick makes a call to Inspector Barrington to tip him off on a possible relation with the Egyptian Murders. After that, the gang loads up their new car for a trip to Essex! They bring their assortment of firearms, rope, and the mysterious mask from the Ju-Ju House. Before departure, they settle on naming their new car *Maggie*.

On the road, Shark has some troubles driving on the left side of the road - despite extensive practicing with dinner plates in the hotel. Dick tries to help him by navigating and reminding him where to drive, and Shark also downs a quantity of strong liquor that Elliot gave him. Things don’t go well. Dick and Shark end up having an explosive argument in the car and an awkward silence falls over the car.

An hour or two into the journey, Matthias is peacefully perusing the Pnakotic Manuscripts when he suddenly hears a faint whispering. It’s impossible to make out any words, and it seems to be coming from all around. No one else hears this. Then he suddenly sees a shadowy figure in the corner of his eyes, standing outside the car as it drives over the country roads. And again. And again. Whenever Matthias tries to focus in on it, it disappears. Again, no one else sees this. Then Matthias feels a pressure on his chest and throat, almost a choking feeling, and Matthias loses it a bit in a bout of madness. He gets beset by an intense feeling of paranoia and is convinced one of his friends in the car must be responsible for this! He extricates himself from any company and bodily keeps distance between him and the others. Lawrence sees this and decides not to get involved. The awkward silence gets even more awkwarder and silencer.

Over the next hour, the feeling in Matthias’ body subsides and he feels somewhat normal again, but tensions are still racing high between Shark and Dick. The gang arrives in Colcester and checks out the municipal registry for ownership of the Misr House, and they learn that the property has been in the name of Edward Gavigan since 1915. The gang drives on to the seaside town of *Walton-on-the-Naze*, which is the town nearest to the Misr House. The town is dreary and empty, slumbering in the winter months only to revive and bustle with tourism and beach enthusiasts in the summer. They locate the town center and head to the Grazing Buffoon Pub. There they supply to elderly men with pints for their knowledge and information.

One of the men, Gregor, tells the group that most of the country estates are owned by city folk who don’t really live there, but rather use it for holiday purposes. He informs the group of the location of the Misr House, built on a peninsula in the Naze that’s filled with bogs and moors. As far as Gregor knows, no one lives their permanently but there are two groundkeepers who keep the place up and who occasionally head into town for supplies. They’re identified as an Asian woman and Arab man. Gregor draws a map on a coaster for the group to the Misr House. It takes a single road to a high stone wall with a gate, that leads deeper into the peninsula and up to the Misr House. He advises the group to take a short trip up the coast to the Naze Tower if they want to have a better look at the surroundings. The group thanks Gregor and his friend and take off towards the Naze Tower.

They find the Naze Tower a simple watchtower sat along the coast. Unfortunately the door is locked, but Shark deftly takes the doors off their hinges and the group gains entry. They head up to the platform and look at the surrounding area. They quickly locate the peninsula and note that it’s indeed covered in dense trees and many moors, and only a single car-worthy road steals across it. They also see a glimpse of the Misr House itself. Shark takes his time and is confident that he could find a way on foot there, but it’ll be so soggy and wet that they’ll be drenched during an estimated 2 hour walk. Looking at the lakes and sloughs, Shark also determines that taking a boat up there would be very doable and very stealthy. The thick line of trees around the coastline of the peninsula would provide sufficient cover. The group heads back to Gregor, who luckily used to be a fisherman, and for the price of 4 pints they get to use his fishing boat and a pair of waders for everyone. Shark spitefully tries to trick Gregor into not giving one to Dick. Dick grumbles.

The group heads up to a small lake where they locate the fishing boat and load up the boat with their supplies of weapons. Dick hides Shark’s waders, but Shark finds them. He punches Dick in the arm. Lawrence and Matthias set the boys aside and make sure they come to a truce while the group is going into hostile territory. They shake hands and row the boat through the trenches and sloughs to the peninsula. They dock the boat at the edge of the thick and foggy forest and start walking towards the Misr House. If not for their waders, the gang would definitely be soaked to the knees. The group perceives a smell of vegetational rot lingering on the peninsula, but they don’t recognise it as being eldritch.

They come to the center of the peninsula and see the fabled Misr House! They observe the mansion for a while and see that it’s not very well kept. It’s slowly sinking in the boggish terrain and tall ranks of ivy are uncontrollably crawling up the sides of the estate. In contrast they see a fancy Bentley Blue Label Tourer out front of the house, that seems to be generally kept clean. Dick decides to take a closer look and camouflages himself by completely covering himself in mud, Predator-style. Shark gladly helps by applying generous amounts of mud to Dick’s face. Dick crawls around the house and notices an empty grand hall with statues of armour and a massive fireplace, an elderly Asian lady in the kitchen chopping carrots, an Arab man slouched over a piano in a sitting room, and two British looking thugs sitting in a smaller sitting room, smoking cigarettes and reading a book. Dick crawls back to the group and they discuss their plan of action. Several strategies are discussed, many involving elaborate ruses, but they finally settle on just going in guns blazing and claiming they’re from the CIA.

Dick takes his rifle and crawls up to the front of the house to take cover behind the Bentley while Shark, Matthias and Lawrence - wielding a handgun and shotguns respectively - enter through the back. They quickly silence the Asian lady by binding and gagging her, and then burst through to the room with the two thugs. They try to make an intimidating scene by yelling that they’re the CIA and they’re on to the schemes of Gavigan, but Matthias and Lawrence find the situation a bit too scary to be properly intimidating. Luckily, Shark puts some extra moxy into it, cocking his gun and aiming it at the men who slowly raise their hands and allow themselves to be bound as well. The Arab man appears to be drunk and is quickly captured as well. Happy with their results, the group sets out to investigate the Misr House.

Most of the house is quite unremarkable and in a poor state of upkeep as well on the inside. Most rooms seems like they haven’t been cleaned for several weeks with a layer of dust on the floor and furniture. In contrast, Dick locates a master bedroom that is kept neat and tidy. It has a large four-poster bed, a mannequin that sports luxurious black robes with an inverted ankh on the chest. The head of the mannequin sports an intricate headdress of interlocking golden chains and different gemstones that are meant to represent eyes. Next to the mannequin they find a desk that holds a letter from *Omar al-Shakti* ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/England Clues#[EN3] Letter from Omar al-Shakti\|[EN3] Letter from Omar al-Shakti]]), a *marine chronometer identical to the one they found in the Ju-Ju House*, and an ornate stand that holds a gnarled club with a wicked spike driven through the head. Above the desk, Dick sees a large oil painting of a pharaoh with a jet black and featureless skin. As he stares at the painting for a while, Dick feels like he almost gets sucked into the visage of the Black Pharaoh. In the blackness of the skin he feels like he can see beyond the painting and into the deep depths of space and the places beyond space. He quickly shakes himself free from his trance and heads back down to the ground floor.

On the ground floor the group inspects the grand hall, and Dick notices scuff marks on the floor next to one of the armored statues. It’s a quick step from there to finding a hidden switch that moves the statue and reveals a secret staircase going down. They end up in a hidden basement with three distinct areas. First, there’s an area with a multitude of torture devices, including a rack, iron maiden and several tongs, pincers and knives. Dried blood is expressly present on the instruments. Next in a corner they find another desk with some shelves above it and a bookcase. On the shelves they see four sickly looking plants, a dull grey colour with stalks like slender tendrils that crawl up the wall. It baffles the group how this plant can grow here without any natural light, and through his knowledge of wood carving Dick determines that this isn’t a known species of plants. In the bookcase the group sees hundreds of books and scrolls, but before they take a look at it their eyes fall on a waist-high statue of a man with a crocodile face. This tingles something in the back of Lawrence’s mind, and he recalls looking in the *Golden Mirror* all that time ago in Peru. In it he saw a vision of dark tunnels and monstrous sounds coming from around, and he feels that it might be related to the crocodile-man. The final interesting object in this area is a large purple velvet pillow on which rest two scepters made of metal. One of them ends in a crook, and the other in an inverted ankh. They are unbloodied.

Before the group goes to searching the desk and bookcase properly, they walk towards the final area of this basement. It seems to be a group of cells, but before they’re truly looking around they hear a whispering voice asking for water. In one of the cells they find a naked, beaten and filthy man chained up to a wall. He identifies himself as *Gary Umberton* and he tells the gang that he’s been imprisoned here for a while now, but it’s impossible to tell the time. Every now and then someone comes down to bring him food and water but they haven’t been for a while. The group questions the man about how he came to be here, and Gary explains that he was leaving work one day after announcing to his boss that he wanted to quit, when he got clubbed in the head and fell unconscious. When he woke up, he was in this cell.

He goes on further to explain that he’s an engineer working for *Henson Manufacturing*, and he wanted to quit his job because he was uncomfortable with the nature of their work. For the past few years they’ve been working with truly incomprehensible and odd schematics and have been tasked with reverse-engineering weird tubes, rotors and other machinery. His boss, *Frank Marshall*, had explained that it was secret work for the War Council of the government, but Gary became more and more at unease at the strange machinations and constant supervision of the engineers. When he told Frank Marshall that he no longer wanted anything to do with it and quit, Marshall got into a rage and started yelling obscenities at Gary. When Gary left work that day, he was assaulted.

While getting Gary some food and water, Dick looks through the rest of the cells. In the corner he finds a wallet. In the wallet he finds the warrant card for one Inspector Gregory Munden. It seems the missing inspector’s fate has now been unveiled…

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 6\|Session 6]]