---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/China/Session 8.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/china/session-8/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Sunday, April 12th, 1925
Lawrence and the illustrious Jimothy start talking. Jimothy explains that he heard Lawrence's distress call and decided to check it out, by walking to the island. Lawrence is confused about this all, and Jimothy just starts chuckling and comments how amusing humans are: slowly breaking their mind trying to minorly alter the fabric of their reality and not even knowing what they're doing or what will happen! 

Jimothy enquires if there's anything he can help with, and Lawrence says he'd like to know some things about Grey Dragon Island. Jimothy chuckles again: the potential for knowledge about the entire multiverse is available, yet a small island is what holds Lawrence's priorities. So quaint!

Jimothy extends a hand and together they start walking. While Lawrence studies Jimothy's incredible smooth and symmetric features, he doesn't realize they're suddenly walking on air! Soon after they reach an incredible place with widespread dunes of red, fine sand illuminated by a bright blue star. The sand undulates and shifts until the star has passed its trip around the sky, after which a violet hue gleans over the environment and the sand stills. Jimothy explains that they're in the Dreamlands: an interdimensional hub where travelers from all realities can come to trade, converse and meet.

Lawrence once again enquires about Grey Dragon Island and together they work out a deal as a flock of flying cats soars by: Jimothy will provide answers for Lawrence on three separate occassions, in return for Lawrence's aid in freeing one of Jimothy's kin from the man named Robert Huston - one of the Carlyle Expedition members. Apparently his kin has been unfortunately subjugated in the Great Purple Domed City of Pnakotus, in the land they know as Australia. Lawrence agrees and starts asking questions about Grey Dragon Island.

Jimothy directly implants imagery and knowledge about the island in Lawrence's head and answers any follow-up questions through lengthy and tiring discussions about subjective interpretations of words and definitions. Through this, Lawrence learns that the island is surrounded by a reef that's easily passable on the north end. The island itself sports a large volcano on the southwest side, and a small village on the south side. Other than that there is also a watch tower on the north side of the island overlooking the passage in the reefs. In the village live about 30 destitute people of mixed heritage, and below the seas near the island houses a Sahuagin colony of around 60-70 strong. The villagers and Sahuagin have agreed on a deal with the Pale Viper and help him out in his endeavours. These endeavours - and the Pale Viper himself - take place inside the cinder cone of the volcano, where the Pale Viper is constructing an apparatus that will split open the gate and open the way of the dimension Nyarlathotep to pour through and entwine in this dimension. Besides the Pale Viper there are around 15-25 others in the cinder cone, more or less depending on the time of day.

At this point, a large bipedal cow pulling a cart full of merchandise rudely bumps into Lawrence on his way. Lawrence decides not to press the issue.

Talking more about Aubrey Penhew, Lawrence learns that he has great powers: he has opened a sliver of a gateway through interdimensional cracks between himself and Nyarlathotep. This provides him with great powers, but in the end he still is a mortal man. Just maybe a bit sturdier than usual. Jimothy compares this connection to the one Dick has been crafting for himself with K'thuga. Once again he is amused by how spontaneous and heedless humans are willing to jump into things beyond their comprehension.

As a freebie, Jimothy also reveals that Matthias' memories of Zasu are actually here in the Dreamlands. If he wants them back, he'll have to travel here to find them. Be warned though! The Dreamlands don't have such things as 'natural law', and if you don't know how to traverse it you might find yourself caught in an endless nightmare! Lawrence asks if he can find Matthias' memories for him, but that would just create an awkward situation where both their memories get fused and it might be impossible for Lawrence to tell which memories are his and which ones aren't!

When all the questions have been answered, Jimothy says his farewells and starts to walk away. Lawrence asks how he can return to where has was, and Jimothy gives him a gentle nudge. Lawrence falls backwards and awakens on the beach in between his friends!

Lawrence wakes everyone up and discusses his experiences. Seeing as there's a watch tower, they decide to go in full dark and without any engines running. They will then sail to the south side of the island and dock near the subtropical evergreen forest, afterwards trekking through it to a side of the volcano they can scale. There's a small discussion about whether it's not better to go through the village, but in the end everyone agrees on the course of action.

### Dateline: Monday, April 13th, 1925
The crew load up on the boats and start their plan. They make their way past the reefs and watch tower unseen and dock on the island when dawn is just a promise to the east. They head into the jungle where Shark attempts to navigate. He is successful, but he does stumble down a small hill in the process. Unfortunately the weather turns and it starts to rain profusely. Carefully stepping through the wet forest floor, Lawrence missteps and sinks into a pit of quicksand! Luckily Matthias knows what to do and gets him out, but Lawrence is soaked through and through and quite miserable.

After a few hours of stalking through the jungle, they have to cross the main path to the volcano. Unfortunately, there are some people coming up the path! Zasu quickly instructs everyone on how to pretend to be a tree and the villagers pass by not noticing the group. They quickly cross the path and head to the side of the volcano. They all start climbing up, but Matthias and Zasu have some problems. They end up banging their knees, scraping their hands and bonking their heads. Shark unfortunately gets a rock that was dislodged by Matthias in the face. In the end, however, they have made it to a cave tunnel in the side of the volcano! The tunnels seems both natural and man made, with wooden supports throughout and gruesome scenes of dismemberment and tentacly horrors decorating the edges. They go into the cave.

After walking a few bends, there is absolutely no natural light. Dick fires up his magic torch. After a while, they notice some orange glowing light around the next bend. They peek around the corner scooby-doo style and are met with a large hollowed out cavern. Inside, near the center, they see a strange large metal object, shaped like a bullet. It's hanging suspended over a large hole from which the orange glow is coming. There are a few tunnels branching out from this chamber, and they spot a number of humans carrying strange black goop towards the object. They also notice at least 4 Deep Ones hanging around this chamber and instructing the humans.

The last thing they see in this room is a humongous statue of the Bloated Woman, easily 9 meters tall. For some reason its back is facing this large chamber. From the back of the statue they see a multitude of tentacles and tendrils extending from the statue. Hanging on these tendrils they see hundreds upon hundreds of severed arms in various state of decay...

