---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/China/Session 6.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/china/session-6/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---


### Dateline: Wednesday, April 1st, 1925
The gang reconvenes with Jack Brady and go over their plan to get Mei-Ling out of Ho Fang's grasp. They split up in two teams: Team Rat, consisting of Dick, Matthias, Zasu and Lawrence, will crawl through the sewers and emerge out of Ho Fang's toilet. Team Pidgeon, consisting of Jack Brady and Shark, will enter from above by gliding down a rope shot from a crossbow. Short Round is Team Shark and will keep the car up and running in case they need to get away quick. They synchronise their watches and head out.

Team Rat makes their way through the muck, Zasu lamenting her choice of open shoes, until they reach the dump hole of Ho Fang's toilet. Dick swings his crowbar true and splinters open the wooden frame, allowing them to emerge in opulant bathroom. Meanwhile Jack and Shark have climbed a neighbouring building and Shark expertly fires the crossbow into a shaded part of the roof. They glide down the rope silently and skulk in the shadows. As before, they see two guards, one in in each courtyard. Jack and Shark split up, sending Jack down the roofs to the southern courtyard.

Then the clock strikes midnight and the investigators unleash their mayhem! Shark and Jack pump their handguns and down the two guards. Team Rat emerges from their hide-out and start frantically checking other rooms, but only find empty guest rooms initially. Then two doors open and four more guards spill out! Shark quickly takes aim and downs one of the guards near Team Rat. Jack pulls out his SMG but his bullets fly wild. Lawrence/Dick (I forgot who) fires at the remaining guard near them and grievously wound him in the abdomen, but the guard charges with a blackjack at Zasu! Zasu swiftly dodges the hit and pulls out her own gun, jamming the barrel in the initial bullet hole and firing again. The guard topples and falls in the carp pond, staining the water red with his blood. By now the noises of gunfire have awoken the neighbourhood, and people can be seen staring shocked down into the compound from their windows.

Then, another door opens and a deep man's voice speaks in accented English, insisting that such violence is unnecessary. Ho Fang emerges from his room and casually strolls over to Team Rat. Shark takes a shot and hits him in the shoulder, which Ho Fang almost casually shrugs off. Dick identifies him as a powerful wizard through the Voorish Sign and Matthias decides to take action, sprinting through the bloody carp pond with the Sword of Akmallah raised high. Faster than lightning, Ho Fang parries the sword attack with a shining sickle as sparks fly from the blades. Then Ho Fang mutters a terrible incantation and Dick, Shark, Lawrence and Matthias are overcome with a terrifying dread. Their knees weaken as they can do the only thing that's on their mind: flee!

Zasu, unperturbed, stares down Ho Fang. Ho Fang extends and invitation to her to sit down as civilized people to talk things over. He promises that no harm will befall her friends if they behave themselves. She agrees and follows Ho Fang into a sitting room, the two remaining guards standing outside the door. He offers her a drink but she declines. They talk about the group's presence here and their goals. Zasu lies her way through, explaining that they're just former associates of Jack Brady who he has hired to help out with his business. Ho Fang offers Zasu free passage for her and the rest from his mansion, if they give up Jack Brady to him. Zasu realizes she needs to buy her buddies more time and tricks Ho Fang into a monologue about the glory and beauty of the Bloated Woman.

Meanwhile the boys have regained their senses. Jack and Shark jump down from the roofs and start looking for Mei-Ling. They only find frightened servants. In a folie a deux, Jack and Shark threaten and intimidate one poor soul so badly that she ends up being more afraid of them than of Ho Fang. She tells them that the girl had been brought to the pavillion. Lawrence, Dick and Matthias have also started exploring the rest of the mansion and inadvertently also head to the pavillion. They find a prayer place for buddha, but Shark quickly spots a mechanism in the buddha statue that opens up a hidden door into a hallway with a barred door at the end. Dick gets out his magical torch and melts the lock, when suddenly their hear an urgent call from Zasu. Matthias feels an underlying sense of urgency and sprints with Dick towards the room with Ho Fang and Zasu.

Realizing that the boys are snooping, Ho Fang stopped his monologue and once more made his offer to Zasu, who refused. He casts another spell and Zasu feels a clutching grasp around her heart. Feeling the life being squeezed out of her, she relents and calls for the boys. The call is answered by Dick and Matthias.

Meanwhile Shark and Jack bust open the door that Dick had melted and find a gruesome chamber. The chamber is dominated by a giant statue of the Bloated Woman, and in front of it a [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/China Images#Mei-Ling in the Glass Coffin\|terrible visage]]: they see a glass coffin in which Mei-Ling lies. The coffin is separated in seven partitions, immobilizing her. Above the coffin is a box with two gnarly rats, who can be released in a partition to feast on Mei-Ling's flesh. It appears they have already done so with her legs... Shark hears a sliding noise and looks up at the ceiling. He seens an intricate gilded pattern that draws him in quite literally. Shark feels his soul and perception glide out of his body and up towards the ceiling. With a major burst of willpower, he forces his soul back into his body and warns Jack - who is busting down the glass coffin - to not look at the ceiling. Shark spies an old teak cabinet in the room as well and he shoots the lock out. Inside he finds some books and takes them all along.

Lawrence, on his own outside, feels like the time for talking is over. He stalks over to the two guards outside of Ho Fang's room, drops a grenade, and quickly heads inside. 

Inside Ho Fang's room, Matthias sees Zasu pale, rigid and sweating. Obviously Ho Fang is pulling a trick on her. He draws his sword and right as the grenade outside explodes, blasting the guards into bits and the door into the room, he lunges for Ho Fang. Once again their blades meet in the middle with a high-pitched clash, but then Dick rolls in drawing his shotgun and putting a hole in Ho Fang's chest. The merchant dies, releasing Zasu's heart. Outside, police sirens can be heard.

The group rushes through the rooms trying to find a way out, Jack carrying a traumatized Mei-Ling in his arms. In Ho Fang's bedroom they spot two things: a trap door underneath a rug that leads into a tunnel out of the compound, and a young girl of 10 years old. She's wearing a dirty shift and appears to be eating maggots and grubs. They see a familial similarity to Ho Fang and gather that this is his daughter. They also surmise that she must have been subjected to terrible horrors and experiences, both on herself and on others. They quickly dismiss the idea of ad hoc adopting her and decide to let the authorities deal with it. They head down the secret tunnel and emerge in a basement of an abandoned building a few blocks over. They make their way to Short Round and get away.

Back in a safe hide-out, Jack thanks the investigators for helping him save his love. Anything he can do for them, he will. The group suggests putting together an amphibious assault team and Jack grins as he excitedly agrees. It will take him some time - around 10 days - to pull this off, so the group better lay low until then.



