---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/China/Session 3.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/china/session-3/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Monday, March 30th, 1925
The next morning, Dick sits Short Round down and tells him honestly that they're not just archeologists, they're also paranormal investigators. Short Round's eyes light up when he compares the crew to Dr. Jones. Lawrence is still violently ill and the group discusses whether to seek out regular medical care or a spiritual healer. They decide to head to a hospital. After some adminstration and tests, the doctor informs the group that Lawrence has radiation poisoning. It seems the Dark Mistress was powered nuclearly! This also explains the physical situation of Captain Jules Savoyard. The doctors inquire where he was exposed, to ensure public health and safety. Lawrence claims that he's been on so many ships that he can't possibly remember. Lawrence's case seems to be mild and he is discharged from the hospital. The group orders Short Round to make an anonymous phone call to the municipality to give them the approximate coordinates of the Dark Mistress' sunken wreck.

Back in their hotel room, Lawrence takes some much deserved rest while the others check out the weird metallic cube they looted. Zasu feels a connection with the device and somehow knows that it's a [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/China/R'lyehan Mist Maker\|R'lyehan Mist Maker]]! The connection she has made with the device allows her to activate it. 

---

### Dateline: Tuesday, March 31st, 1925
Upon awakening, Lawrence feels refreshed and all better. The group ponders their next move. If they ever decide to seek out Grey Dragon Island, they'll need transportation and intel. They decide to split up and look for ships or aircrafts for hire. Luckily, they find both! They think of the positives and negatives of each mode of transportation. Scouting ahead with an airplane will provide more information on the island, but will also draw the attention of anyone on the island. Going in with a ship means they might have the advantage of surprise, but also are unaware what they're actually sailing towards. They decide to shelf the dilemma for now and head to the Stumbling Tiger Bar. 

The Stumbling Tiger Bar is a filthy and cramped place, in a part of town littered with gambling dens and flower girl houses. They approach the jolly looking barkeep who introduces himself as half-Chinese half-Scottish Fergus McChum, to much dismay of Zasu. They question him about Jackson Elias and he mentions seeing Jackson every now and then. When asked what Jackson Elias was doing here, he first feigns ignorance but then proceeds to tell a tale about how Jackson was meeting a man named Charley Gray about a weapons deal going on in Rangoon, Indonesia. The investigators realize that Rangoon is not in Indonesia but in Burma, and Fergus must be lying. Zasu attempts to converse with a man in a drunken stupor at the bar but he provides no helpful insights. 

They confront Fergus again and after some persuasive talk he whispers that Jackson Elias was meeting up with Jack Brady. He didn't want to say anything because he doesn't want to get Brady in trouble - Brady saved his life once. The group learns that Jack Brady has been in Shanghai for several years now. When Jackson and Jack first met, Jack was skittish. Later on they met more often and spent many a night in deep conversations. Fergus tells the group that Jack was staying at a boarding house called The Seamen's Club, but after a part of the building was destroyed a few weeks ago he hasn't seen or heard from Jack. When asked about any other attachments Brady might have had, he informs them that he was sweet on a flower girl called Mei-Ling in a brothel just down the street. Crazily enough, someone was murdered there not too long ago! Fergus happily shows the investigators his scrapbook of relevant newspaper articles, including one of another strange incident that happened recently:
- [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/China Clues#[CH1] Seamen's Club Damaged\|[CH1] Seamen's Club Damaged]]
- [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/China Clues#[CH2] Fire on Chin-Ling Road\|[CH2] Fire on Chin-Ling Road]]
- [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/China Clues#[CH3] Violent Incident on Lantern Street\|[CH3] Violent Incident on Lantern Street]]

The group thanks Fergus for his assistance and intensive scrapbooking and they set off. They decide to visit the flower girl house of Jack's beau first, as it's right down the street. They're met with a sultry young woman who calls herself Quivering Jade. She tries to entice Matthias for a more private talk, but he gets stuck on the linguistical properties of her name. They inquire after Mei-Ling and get told that she got sold to a different flower girl house recently, because Auntie Gee didn't like that Mei-Ling constantly had that American man around. The group says their farewell and heads to the flower girl house that Mei-Ling was sold to. They're met by a greasy and skeevy man who informs them that Choi Mei-Ling was bought from him by representatives of Ho Fang a few days ago. 

The group discusses whether to head to Ho Fang's residence in the French Concession, but decide to pay the Seamen's Club a visit first. They see part of the building is still up in rafters. Inquiring at the reception area reveals that one the destroyed rooms was rented by an American named John Smith. He hasn't been seen since the room got destroyed. When the group is about to leave, a janitor whispers that he might have some information for them. After a generous but appropriate bribe, he informs them that he saw John Smith near the Autumn Morning Tea House a few days ago. 

It's getting close to evening, but the group decides to check out the Autumn Morning Tea House. When they walk up, they notice a tall and large man wearing a trench coat. He quickly glances around and the group gets a look at his face, and they recognize him.

It's ~~Jason Bourne~~ Jack Brady.