---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/China/Session 2.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/china/session-2/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Sunday, March 29th, 1925
The group discusses the Dark Mistress. As it's likely to sail away within a few hours, they decide to at least make an attempt to learn more about its crew and goals. They fall back on their tried and tested 'We're from the Penhew Foundation' plot. Lawrence gets into his Thomas Timothy character while Dick decides to disguise himself and Lawrence. Unfortunately he hasn't accounted for the difference in temperature and humidity in Shanghai compared to Egypt. As they walk towards the ship, their fake moustaches and clay noses fall off. This draws the attention from several onlookers.

The two talk to one of the sailors near the ship and request an audience with their captain. Captain Jules Savoyard, drunk, diseased and foul, agrees and brings them belowdecks. Dick and Lawrence notice the captain and the sailor both have similar medaillons on their neck. Savoyard brings them to a smelly hut littered in empty bottles and crude pornography. Surprisingly this does not appear to be the stateroom of the ship. Dick spins a lie about how they're lawyers to Mr. Penhew's estate and now that he has died they're here to see to his assets. Dick unwittingly confused Aubrey Penhew for Edward Gavigan in his head, so the lie makes no sense at all to the captain. Savoyard tries excuse himself to get some documents, but Dick realizes he's up to something else. Savoyard makes a sprint towards the door. Lawrence tries to trip him and Dick tries to tackle him but to no avail. Savoyard thumps in the door post as he makes his way out and tries to close the door. Before he manages to lock it, though, Lawrence barrels through the door and Dick starts grappling the captain. Together they maneuver him into the stateroom and close the door behind themselves. The stateroom upon first glance is very neat and tidy, but doesn't seem used often. It's decorated with painting of the Nile delta and an image of an Egyptian queen.

The thump against the door post was audible to those abovedecks as well. Two sailors on the deck start heading that way to check it out but Matthias, Zasu and Shark quickly intervene. Matthias whispers into Zasu's ear that he'll try something he's never tried before and asks her to play along. With experience-hardened muscle memory the two grab the attention of one of the sailors by enquiring whether this grand vessel is available for their honeymoon. The sailor awkwardly tries to explain that it's a merchant vessel, but Zasu's dramatic disappointment has him distracted enough for Shark to sneak on board. He trips over a bucket of fish, drawing the attention of the other sailor who was about to head belowdecks. Shark charges towards him and after a short grapple he shoves the sailor down the stairs. The sailor hits his head with a dull thud and falls unconscious, after which Shark quickly disappears belowdecks.

Meanwhile Dick and Lawrence talk to Savoyard and theatening him in several different ways, including with the eternal flamethrower. During the course of conversation, Savoyard lets slip that he saw Penhew only 3 days ago in his workshop. As Dick and Lawrence try to pry further Savoyard starts laughing as he realizes the two investigators have no idea what's actually going on. He then goes on to threatening to sever their arms and offering them to the Bloated Woman. Dick remembers reading about the Order of the Bloated Woman, a cult of some centuries ago in Asia that worshipped an immensely obese woman who perpetually covers her face with a fan: the Bloated Woman. The medaillon the captain was wearing is one associated with the Order, but the Order was not believed to have survived past the 19th century.

Abovedecks, Matthias and Zasu keep the uneasy sailor expertly distracted and are awarded with a tour of the Dark Mistress. The figurehead resembling a bloated woman gets pointed out to them and Zasu quickly explains that that's what fueled their desire to have their honeymoon on this boat, as they're from an orthodox branch of the Order themselves. The sailor, now feeling more at ease, starts explaining more about the ship's history and building materials. In the distance, however, Matthias and Zasu spot two remaining sailors heading down the wharf towards the ship with some last bits of cargo.

Shark, belowdecks, hears two more sailors making their way up from deeper in the ship. He quickly grabs the unconscious body of the one he shoved earlier and chucks it down the stairs to the other two. One manages to dodge the limp body but it crashes bodily into the second one, making him crash down the stairs. The dodger charges up the stairs in anger but Shark has taken his trusty baseball bat out and with a yeehaw thwacks him hard over the head. The sailor falls unconscious and limply tumbles down the stairs.

Dick and Lawrence decide they've had enough of talking to the cultist captain and try to knock him unconscious, succeeding eventually by knocking him on the head a few times. His skin readily splits like a ripe plum and a thick dark blood starts oozing from the wounds. They tie the captain up. Lawrence takes this time to inspect the stateroom with the Voorish Sign and detects a small metal cube in a desk drawer that gives off an aura. He also notices the captain has some magical abilities. Dick quietly sneaks out the room and sees Shark, but holds off on letting his presence be known. He witnesses Shark cracking his bat on the remaining sailor's skull, killing him instantly. "Shark you crazy bastard," Dick mumbles.

Abovedecks, Matthias and Zasu have heard some thuds and cracks and a faint 'yeehaw', so they're fairly certain of their friends' victory. They entice the sailor to show them the guest huts, but as the sailor is about to head down the steps belowdecks Matthias pierces his swordcane through the back of his skull. Sickly green ichor oozes from the wound as the lifless body thumps down the stairs. "Matthias you crazy bastard," Dick mumbles. Matthias and Zasu warn everyone about the remaining two sailors approaching and they lay out an ambush, capturing them when they arrive.

They interrogate the sailors and learn that Penhew serves the Bloated Woman, that he will open the gate and remove the locks so that she can return to this plane and all can scream in agony when she removes her fan to show her beautiful face. As before, these people seem not to fear death as the coming of their god will remove the boundaries of life and death for them. When the investigators mention that Penhew serves the Black Pharaoh, the sailors shrug and say that they're all the same thing. The group is reminded of a conversation with Dr. Kafour in Egypt where he explained that the Black Pharaoh and other cult gods such as the Bloody Tongue are most likely different representations or masks of the same outer god Nyarlathotep. The Bloated Woman might be one more such mask. 
Jackson Elias also alluded to something similar in the last disjointed letter he wrote before his death: [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM13] Jackson's Note from London\|[AM13] Jackson's Note from London]]

Through further interrogation, they learn that the sailors themselves are not really Deep Ones, but seem more a human-Deep One hybrid creature born from a breeding between the two races. They talk about coccooning to gain more powers, but the investigators remove any such notion by killing the sailors. Talking to captain Savoyard doesn't reveal much more, only that he mentions his own powers as he starts to mumble magical words to cast a spell. They quickly knock him unconscious again.

After, the group checks the ship's ledgers. They find that it ships artefacts and machine parts from Ho Fang Import/Export to an unlisted destination. The most likely reason the destination is unlisted is because there must be only one possible destination that is known by all involved. The artefacts come from different places around the world, but the machine parts seem to be coming from Randolph Shipping Co. in Australia and Henson Manufacturing in Derby, England. The group is reminded of Gary Umberton whom they found in the basement of the Misr House. He had worked at Henson Manufacturing and talked about the strange futuristic machine parts they were creating. Shark inspects some of the machine parts in the cargo and notices that the machine parts seem very advanced. Some of them seem to resemble some type of engine part, but it's more compact than he would think possible. All in all it seems very ahead of their time.

The group discusses at length what to do with their newly obtained boat. Shark goes to the helm and determines he would be able to pilot the boat on a very basic level. They also find a wad of sea maps. In the end the group decides to sail the boat out to open waters and scuttle it. Shark brings Lawrence to the engine room to show him how to shuffle coal, but the engine room is blocked by a large metal door for some reason. It's unlocked, and when they open it they're greeted with a searing heat. Inside the coal furnace something appears to be giving off a large amount of heat and a wan green light. They quickly close the door again and determin that the engine must be up and running by itself. 

They haul Short Round on board and Shark slowly and carefully maneuvers the ship out of the river and unto open water. Then they all get in the dinghy and Dick torches the boat with the eternal flamethrower. Short Round is impressed but also extremely confused and scared. He asks where the sailors of the boat are, and is reassured by Dick that there was no one alive on that boat.

The group quietly rows their dinghy back to shore, but Lawrence suddenly becomes quite ill: he develops a headache and shortly after starts vomiting. He feels physically weakened and drained, and mentally addled. No one seems to have an idea what might be afflicting him. The rest studies the sea maps they had taken from the Dark Mistress and find a small island circled in the East China Sea. It's annotated as being Grey Dragon Island. Dick is reminded of New York, several months ago, when he was spying on Mukunga M'Dari and Silas N'Kwane. In an overheard conversation they mentioned the words 'Grey Dragon'. Intrigue!

### Dateline: Monday, March 30th, 1925
Finally, the group makes their way back to Shanghai and into their hotel deep in the night. They lay themselves down to rest after a very eventful day.