---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ttrpg/call-of-cthulhu/masks-of-nyarlathotep/players/journals/china/transcript-of-jack-brady-s-story/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

So, yeah, I'm Jack Brady. And I'm the only sane one left from that damned Expedition. At least I think I'm still sane. I don't know, maybe I'm as crazy as the rest of them. Regardless: we're all in a LOT of trouble. The more I learn about the full concept of the situation, the more scared I get. When I told my story to Jackson, I felt some relief. Certainly people would read his book and do something about this cult, but in the end they caught up with him just the same. I warned him! I didn't hold anything back! I'll give you guys the courtesy of the same warning: the cult plays for keeps. They'll do anything, and I mean anything, to get what they want.

It all started when Roger met that little witch back in '18. I knew she was trouble the moment I laid eyes on her. She came from somewhere in Africa and called herself Nichonka Bunay, though I doubt that's her real name. I heard Roger call her all manner of names: Anastasia, My Princess, M'Weru.

Now, me and Roger, we go way back. When Roger was just 18 he was studying in California, and after a night out he got into some trouble, and some big bullies were about to give him a beating. I was on leave from the marines and around, and I wasn't just going to let those guys beat on this rail-thin wimpy kid you know, so I got involved. Turns out I got involved a bit too eagerly, and I ended up beating one of them so hard he died several days later from a brain bleed. I was arrested, but Roger- bless his heart - set his family's legal team on my defense and in the end I was acquitted. Right there and then I decided that, as Roger saved my life, I would stick around to make sure I could save his if needed. Never strayed from his side ever since.

I digress. So, he met this Bunay, and she was as alluring to him as all the alcohol and other intoxicants Roger had taken the years before. I guess she was like a new addiction to him, and damn if she didn't know it! She had him around her little finger in no time, and that's when it all started. He started having crazy dreams, and woke up screaming in the night about gods and portals. Erica sent him to that headshrink Huston, but fat lot of goo that did him.

When he got the idea in his head about organizing an expedition to Egypt, I was glad! That woman wouldn't be coming along and I thought maybe things would get back to normal a bit. And for a while, it seemed like it would. The trip over to London was a lot of fun, but once we got there, Roger spent pretty much every waking minute with Aubrey Penhew, pouring over some artefact junk that Besart got for him in Egypt. There was this black head-and-shoulder type statue that Roger would just stare at for hours, and this one single map he would just study and study, almost like you and I would study a beautiful woman.  
There were parties and sightseeing trips in London as well, but mostly it was all about that damend map.

Now when we got to Cairo, Roger really started to go off the deep end. He started having dreams again about meeting a god and crap like that, only now he wasn't drinking anymore and that Bunay lady wasn't around. Crazy as Roger was, Huston and Penhew started to act even nuttier than he did. So I said to myself: "Jack, my boy, trouble is somewhere up the road," and damned right it was. Roger started telling me excitedly that we could meet his god as soon as he destroyed the eye and opened the path. Huston and Penhew only encouraged him more and more in his madness.

Now, the first night that we were up at Dahshur, Roger snuck out of the camp and started climbing frantically up that Red Pyramid. Any of you guys ever climbed a pyramid? They're steep! But Roger just started up that pile of rocks like a monkey. He never looked back or hesitated even once. I thought the poor guy had finally lost it all, but I owed him my life so I followed him up. Guess I was a bit crazy too! Ha!

Now for about two thirds of the way up, you just climb up over big chunks of rock, like a dumb kid would make by piling up a bunch of construction blocks. The builders then filled all the cracks in with nice smooth stone. Later though, people stole that nice smooth stone for their own buildings, so in the beginning it was pretty rough and a pretty easy climb. The last bit though, still had that nice smooth stone in the cracks that made it almost impossible to get a good hold in. Well, Roger zipped right up this last part too, while I was lagging behind, panting and eyes bulging from the effort of not bouncing down the whole damn thing!

Now, there's a little flat place at the tip of the pyramid. When Roger reached the top, he put on some kind of robe and started making some weird sounds, like a pipe was playing through his mouth or something. Damn creepy that sound was, like no human should be able to produce those sounds you know? But then there was suddenly one hell of an explosion with a big flash of red light! And I thought I heard weird echoes and screams along with it. It knocked me on my ass, and when I got up I saw Roger standing over me, grinning like an idiot. He looked at me and said: "the Eye is gone now, Jack! Now we can be gods!"

I looked past Roger and saw that there was a huge part just ripped right out of the stone at the top. Me and Roger slowly descended, he still babbling about the first lock being broken and a corridor being open, and we went back to camp to sleep the last hours before dawn away. The next day, Roger acted like nothing had happened to me, but he was excitedly talking to Huston and Penhew, who were equally giddy like little school girls. They weren't paying attention to me, so I went back to the pyramid. There, at the bottom, I found a part of a rock that looked like it could've been in that blown up part originally, and it had this weird sign on it. I took it, even though I didn't know what it was at the time. I know now though, it's some strong ass magic that kept evil things away from us, and Roger deliberately broke its power!

Two days after this happened, the whole gang: Penhew, Roger, Huston and Patty, they gave me the slip and disappeared into the Bent Pyramid. Some of the Egyptian messenger boys went in to find them, and they came out shrieking that the pyramid had eaten them. Well bam and bingo, all the workers started leaving the site in all directions. The whole dig was deserted in five minutes and only me and Besart were left. So I did the only thing I could and went to check for myself. I searched that pyramid up and down but they were nowhere to be found. So we just started drinking.

A long time later, somewhere in the night, they all re-emerged from the pyramid again. Roger was babbling about having been to Egypt, the REAL Egypt, but most of the rest he said was insensible. Meanwhile Penhew looked invigorated, like he shed 10 years of age, and Huston had this mad look of excitement in his eyes. Patty just looked sick, to be honest. No matter how often I'd asked, none of them would tell me where they'd been. After that day though, if I would wake up in the night, I could find the rest of the talking creepy lingo like I've never heard before.

One evening, Roger came to me and said he was going to show me the power of what they'd learned. We went out into the desert with a bunch of Arabs, and then everyone started screaming weird words and songs and Penhew started beating this weird drum. Then, dark creatures started coming out of the ground and eating the Arabs, and Roger and the others just started laughing. I left right then and there and went on a real toot. Roger found me the next day and he warned my that I'd better start changing my attitude. I still owed Roger my life, and then I started thinking real good about how I was going to save his.

The next part of the trip saw us to Kenya. They said for some holidaying but I knew they were going to meet up with that witch again. Nonetheless, Roger filled me in on some details during the trip. He said that they had found a true god who would one day rule the Earth, and we would rule with that god for we were the chosen ones. The god had picked us to open the way for his return, for he was locked away from our world by evil men who could not see his benevolence. I just nodded and listened for the rest of the trip. Huston was locked in his cabin a lot on that trip, writing some weird manuscript, and Patty was just sick a lot, tired and throwing up. Meanwhile Penhew seemed to have the time of his life, and I'll be damned if he didn't start looking younger and younger every week.

After arriving in Nairobi, we were going to leave for some place in the mountains where there was no river, no railway, no telegraph, no police and nobody who looked friendly. I figured that good ol' Jack probably would't live very long there, so I made some arrangements. On the last night in Nairobi, I drugged Roger, grabbed his cash box, and got me and him aboard an unscheduled deadhead freight train to Mombasa. Later I found out my guess was right, the newspapers wrote about the Expedition being massacred, including me and Roger. I thought it was best that everyone believed us dead rather than tell the truth, considering the state he was in.

Anyway, my arrangements went off without a hitch. When we got to Mombasa, we got off before the causeway and found a fisherman who was willing to go to Zanzibar for a few dollars. From there we hopped a coastal trader to Durban, and in Durban we dyed our hair, got some decent clothes, and sailed for Perth.

Now, while we were traveling, Roger finally got some good sleep and he seemed to wake up as a different person. I figured being away from the influence of those other people let him return to his old self. I told him we were in a lot of trouble, and that we needed to hide it. I reminded him about the Arabs being killed in Egypt and all the god stuff. He could remember it alright, but it didn't seem very important to him somehow. He understood the logic of the situation though. Then, after a week or so, the nightmares started again and he went off the deep end again. This time it was different, though. I think this time it was because he was beginning to realize some of the things he had done.

When I was in the marines, I spent a fair while in Shanghai and had a number of friends here. My plan was to take him here and figure things out from a safe space, but by the time our ship pulled into Hong Kong, I could see that Roger couldn't go no further. He began shrieking at shadows and everything that moved. So, I put him in a sanitarium there, using up most of the remaining money to get him settled. Then I went on the Shanghai by myself, thinking that that was the end of it and that I'd never have anything to do with that shit every again.

So I thought, until one day in 1921 I saw a familiar yacht, and that damned snake Penhew preening on the deck of it. That's when I knew I couldn't just let things be. I had to take firm action to end it.