---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/liminal-horror/a-day-at-the-mall/"}
---



Kevin, Heather, Dustin, and Chuck gather together near the stage for the raffle. Giggles the Clown provides a sad performance before the Mall's manager Mr. Neill enters the stage. After a short speech describing the history of Carpenter and the mall, he suddenly bends forwards in agony as his skull splits open and fleshy crab-like appendages sprout from his head. His spine then bursts through his suit and skewers Giggles through the chest.

In the ensuing mayhem the group discovers a wall of spores has blanketed the outer facade of the mall, inflicting a gruesome end to those who touch it. They run for the parking garage where they spy a mysteriously empty van with the engine running. They climb in Dustin's car but discover the ramp to the outside is equally blocked by spores.

They make their way to the security office through a cacophony of terror and screams and find Hudson there, weeping in his manual. Cursory examination of the security feeds shows Griffith - of the Your Body is a Temple Wellness Center - breaking cameras outside his location, a spunky teen called Beth crawling through vents, and another horrible fleshy monster jumping and feasting on a guy named Brian. Kevin tries to work the radio to the outside, but only gets a strangely discordant choir. Right as Dustin breaks the radio, Kevin thinks he hears someone whispering to him over the static. Kevin is in distress. Hudson's gun passes a few hands.

The group has a beer and a cigarette as they recover from their experiences and they make their way to Emmy's Swords & Stuff. They learn that the monsters can look like anyone. They agree with Emmy to bring her some food in return for borrowing some of her weapons. They make their way to the employee break room through the access hallways and get busy on some high fructose rations. They check other employees' lockers and find some interesting things:
- The locker of Billy - Mr. Neill's assistant and unlikeable weirdo - is smeared with dry mud and orange spores. His schedule also notes an important meeting with Mr. Neill two days prior
- The locker of Kurt - assistant manger at Stan's Pretzel Stand - reveals a collection of notes and investigations on people who supposedly left Carpenter. Kurt surmises the people haven't actually left, but rather have mysteriously disappeared...
- The locker of Bruce - maintenance guy - contains a detailed notebook on happenings in the mall, including lengthy descriptions of Mr. Neill leaving muddy footprints across the mall, near the vents, and near the stairs to the basement.

Making their way back to Emmy's, the group decides to check out Maintenance to get spare keys of other stores, and to check the Loading Docks where Billy has been known to sleep often. Circumventing the access hallways behind the Wellness Clinic, they come across William - a retired mall walker - carrying bags of food. He explains that he and some 20+ others have gathered under the watchful eye of Maggie, the president of the Business Owner's Association, and have boarded themselves up in the Business Association's offices. William doesn't trust the group, and they part ways on tense terms.

The group gets to Maintenance and encounter Bruce there. They quickly spy a blowing vent and warn Bruce of the dangers. They try to get Bruce to come along but he doesn't see any benefit in their dangerous plans, and instead he elects to head up to Emmy's. Then the group turns towards the Loading Docks where scuffling sounds were heard. Heather opens the door and spies an emaciated body on the floor of the staging area, fungal stalks sprouting from chest and throat and entrails splayed out like webs on the ground. She recognizes the person from one of Kurt's files. They seem to still be a live, with every breath puffing a cloud of spores up. Dusting skewers it with an arrow, which causes Billy to emerge from his little office. Billy seems unperturbed by the fungal creature on the ground, which is enough reason for Kevin to throw a homemade molotov cocktail at him. As flames lick around Billy, he screams and convluses, sprouting incredibly long and multi-jointed arms from his body and opening his mouth wider than would seem possible to reveal another, smaller Billy head inside. In the ensuing fight, Chuck gets spewed with thick black liquid from the creature's mouth and Kevin narrowly evades a mortal wound. Luckily, our plucky mall survivors manage to bleed it out.

Recovering from their endeavours, they check out Billy's office and find strange geometric symbol scrawled over nudie posters. They also find a small TV which Kevin excitedly turns on. When the same discordant choir plays on channel 4, Dustin quickly smashes the TV - much to Kevin's dismay. A further search reveals a shotgun with 6 shells, and a thick key flecked with mud.

Right as the group wants to leave, they spy movement from a vent grill. Too slow in his escape, Chuck is left behind to see Beth emerging from the vents. She explains that she and some other 'Mall Rats' have holed up in their club room in the basements. They are joined by Ruth - a really cool old lady. Deciding to rather spend the night at Emmy's than in the basement, they give Beth one of their walkie-talkies and they part ways. The group arrives back at Emmy's to bed down for the night...