---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"The Northern Wilds/Journal/Session 12.md","permalink":"/the-northern-wilds/journal/session-12/","tags":["TTRPG/Campaigns/Northern-Wilds","Journal"]}
---

When the party arrives in the town of Aultdin, they are drawn to a commotion in the streets. An angry red-faced man is being restrained by two members of the Church of the Dragon (**Dracolytes**) as he is yelling furiously at a teen boy, accusing him of throwing away his future and being drawn in by bullshit. As the party rocks up to intervene, Vello intervenes first and asks what's going on. They learn that the man - **Eggart Brass** - started going off at the boy for getting a tattoo of the Church of the Dragon. Mariun recognizes the tattoo design on the boy as the same tattoos her sister's killers. 

The party talks to Eggart and learn that he is a very zealous follower of Brigid and vehemently opposed to the beliefs of the Church of the Dragon. After some racist comments to Rowan he angrily leaves for the Temple of Brigid.

While meandering through the town, the party notices a fair amount of people with Dragon tattoos, and the tensions are clear to notice. They head to the local tavern of The Happy Hearth and get a bit of the lay of the land. They learn that Aultdin was very peaceful, but around a year ago kobolds started raiding. As the town didn't have any real guards themselves, **Wardlaw Braebury** - priest of Brigid and de facto alderman of the town - sent for **Dun Athol** to the north to request aid. Some soldiers were sent but didn't really amount to anything substantial, and future requests for aid were ignored. Then, as human bandits started raiding the town as well, the Church of the Dragon arrived led by a charismatic man named Theodbald, and they started to protect the town. Now the kobold raids have stopped, and the banditry has greatly diminished. 

The party decides to head to the Temple of Brigid to talk to Priest Wardlaw. The Temple is adorned with a humongous hearth and a blazing fire. They see Eggart in one of the benches, scowling in the distance. An elderly man near the hearth rocks up to the party and welcomes the party to the warmth of Brigid's hospitality. After the group partakes of the buffet, they notice a young girl sitting in the back of the Temple with a scowl to match Eggart's. The girl - **Fiona** - relates to the party how she thinks it's crazy that she's the only one in town who seems to realize how convenient the timing of the Dracolytes' arrival is, and that she expects it's a whole conspiracy set up by the Church of the Dragon to take over the town for some reason. After a bit of back and forth about small town politics, the party inspires her to do her own investigations and to take matters in her own hands if she feels something fishy is afoot.

Afterwards, the party talks to Wardlaw. He proves to be pacifistic and timid to a fault and simply does not dare to take any action related to violence or conflict. Wardlaw muses about whether the claws and fangs of the Dracolytes is what the town needs, and in that case he doesn't see a place for him as alderman.

Next up is a visit to **Theodbald**, the leader of the Dracolytes in town. They find him in the old barracks, which are undergoing renovations, in a room with a great tapestry of a dragon sheltering a group of people on the wall. He spins a grandiose tale of visions of this town being given to him in his prayers, and how he and his chosen followers saved the day from both banditry and a lack of clear leadership. He divulges his belief in the power of order, and that there are those who lead and those who need to be led. During this monologue, Nun checks out some papers on Theodbald's desk. He finds a map of the area with an X marked '**Whisperways**' in the mountains to the west. He also notices a piece of paper titled 'Persistent Risk Factors', followed by a list of names, including Eggart Brass and Fiona Selwyn. 

The party decides to head back to Vello, who mentions he'll visit Theodbald tonight. Rowan sneaks along as a lizard to drop some eaves. She discerns that Vello and Theodbald already know each other, and Theodbald explains how 'things are going better than expected.' It seems that the coming of the Church of the Dragon to this town was a calculated move by Vello - who appears to be a Dracolyte himself - although for what reason remains nebulous. The bandit problem seems to be real, unexpected, and persistent, though. They discuss whether to rout the bandits or to use the threat of them a bit longer to pull more people to their cause. It's also insinuated that the lack of action from Dun Athol was a pre-empted maneuver by Vello. They finally discuss a plan to meet with the bandits in the Whisperways to enlist their help in getting rid of... the party!!!

After a while, Theodbald and Vello leave the room. Rowan then thoroughly searches the rooms and comes up with a stack of correspondence outlining Theodbald's mission to establish a foothold in this town and ingratiate themselves with the townsfolk. The letters also mention that Dun Athol's funds have been intentionally reduced to prevent any effective action being taken, and that the kobolds and goblins won't pose any serious threat to the Dracolytes. Rowan takes the letters, and a dram of whisky while she's there.

On the roof, Rowan is surprised to see Fiona skulking about - and vice versa - and they start whispering. Fiona explains that the party suggested she should get information herself, so that's what she's here to do. Rowan and Fiona compare notes about the nefarious plot and agree to meet up again tomorrow. Rowan advises Fiona to ask the party for money for this information.

The next day, tense financial negotiations happen between Nun and Fiona as she informs the party about the conversation between Vello and Theodbald. The group then decides to ride out to the Whisperways to confer with the bandits before the Dracolytes do. Fillegrin catches wind of this and insists he joins along. The party quickly leaves while he's packing his bag. 

On their way across the land, they see a lone traveler riding ahead of them. As they catch up, they realize it's the **Time Being**, riding a goat! The Time Being jokingly calls Mariun 'my liege', but they don't get it... yet...
TB tells the party about the history of the Whisperways: it used to be the hide-out of a very dangerous gang of people. The nearby town of Athol hired a necromancer to chase them out, but then the necromancer used the dead bodies of the thugs to do even worse things to the town! So, Athol hired another group of adventurers that finally vanquished the necromancer. Legend says that you can still hear the necromancer whisper and play his piping flute in the catacombs. TB then alludes to the party meeting a veteran soon, but before they can learn more he vanishes again.

After a bit more travel, the group notices ANOTHER lone traveler riding on the plains - this one actually on his way to the Whisperways for nefarious plans. The party deceives this **Justin** into believing that there has been a change of plans, and Justin reveals that there was a plot to kidnap Fillegrin! The party joins Justin on the trek to the Whisperways. Upon arrival, they spot hidden snipers outside the Whisperways. Spurred on by the party's cockamamie schemes, Justin steps forward and demands to meet the bandit leader for parley. He promptly gets hit in the chest with two crossbow bolts and falls to the ground. The party makes a desperate plea to distance themselves from any association with Justin. 

Through the magic of persuasion they learn that the bandits are actually former Dun Athol soldiers who were fired due to budget cuts. The party then presents the stolen evidence of the sabotage of Dun Athol, which is brought to the attention of the bandit leader: a hulking dwarf named **Craggen Stackston**. They discuss the implications, and come to the agreement to drive the Church of the Dragon from Aultdin, after which they will head on to Dun Ballantein and present the evidence to General Maeve.

The party is invited in the Whisperways for a drink and a meal, and a discussion of tactics...

