---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/dungeons-and-dragons/the-northern-wilds/players/journal/session-11/","tags":["TTRPG/Campaigns/Northern-Wilds","Journal"]}
---

The morning of Vello's departure, he decides to give a rousing speech to the troops at Dun Ballantein. The party attends, but quickly notice (except Betsy) that a hooded figure is aiming a weapon at Vello! They rush over and overpower the man, but not before he gets a crossbow shot off at Vello, which clips Vello in the right ear. Commotion erupts, but Vello quickly stands up with a raised fist in defiance of this attempt on his life. The party interrogates the shooter, who is identified as Osweald Milner, one of the soldiers at the fortress. He claims to be of the Glenfior Resistance, a rebel group from the region Vello is originally from and who see Vello's decadence and lavish lifestyle as treason to his home. Through Detecting his Thoughts, Betsy discerns that this is a lie. Apparently the assassination attempt was staged, and Osweald was only meant to draw blood but not kill Vello. Osweald is proud that his fulfilled his mission. His side also really hurts for some reason. Betsy pushes it further by Suggesting that Osweald reveals the full plan: to make it seem like Maeve doesn't have a good control over her troops by having an assassination attempt happen on her grounds, and Vello is in on this plot. Osweald gets taken to the dungeons by guards.

Meanwhile, Vello has recovered and is in a heated conversation with a shocked General Maeve. Betsy relays to Maeve via Sending Stone that this was all a ruse, but she's too caught up in crisis meetings with captains and sergeants to respond. Meanwhile Vello has his ear bandaged up and he and his retinue are ready to embark on their tour, so the party is forced to leave Maeve on her own for now.

As they converge with Vello and his 4 personal guards, Vello goes on a tirade that Maeve is an incompetent and incapable general and not in control of the region at all. He further explains that if he finds similar signs in other forts, he'll see to having her replaced!

Finally Fillegrin the Bold arrives with his lute, his flute, and his bongo drums. They all set out!

---
The first night out, Vello sits next to Mariun and is creepily obsessed by her Halberd - calling it divine and god-like, and wanting to touch it. Rowan budges in and shoos Vello off, despite his claims of being a connaisseur of fine weaponry. A discussion about the propriety of touching a woman's weapon is had.

Later on in the night, Rowan Detects some Magic and discerns a magical aura of transmutation fully enveloping Vello. The effect doesn't seem to come from a spell. Rowan's suspicions are raised, and on later nights she purposefully loses a game of Go to Vello to give him one of her trinkets as a focus for a possible Locate Object in the future.

During their travels, the entourage encounters a family with a cart and a shitty mule traveling the other direction. The family is relocating from their hometown of Aultdin to Port Hawis. After further conversation, they learn that the family is leaving Aultdin because of recent religious tensions: a contingency of Dracolytes arrived a few months ago to help the village defend against an increasing amount of raids by bandits - to which the nearby fortress of Dun Athol in the north, led by Glorbin Bluntfury, hasn't properly responded - and they've clashed with the Temple of Brigid in the town. With differing religious views polarizing the community, emotions have run high and volatile. Vello responds appalled that another fortress under Maeve's command is flaking their responsibilities!

One of the nights, Rowan decides to spy on Vello by turning into a lizard and crawling into his tent after bedtime. She reads some reports of his travels, that seem to paint a very negative and quite embellished picture of the state of the army. When Vello enters his tent, she observes him writing a bit more, until suddenly he walks up and goes to the flaps of the tent. Then, he stares out in a direction for a long time. Then he moves to his pallet bed, sits down, and stares into the distance without moving for half an hour. Afterwards he gets up, rummages around some chests, and lies back down on his bed - very still... 

All along the travel, Betsy keeps in informal touch with Maeve and shares the suspicions about Vello, while Maeve shares she's under scrutiny from the Council.

After a couple of days, the entourage arrives at Dun Mallach - the fortress halfway between Dun Ballantein and Dun Athol. Vello gets greeted by Captain Sae Ryder and is taken inside. The party gets greeted by Riqardo: the laid-back half-Orc they met earlier in Caol Arrad. Apparently he wasn't fit for wall duty in Port Hawis and was transferred here recently. He's happy about it, as Dun Mallach is known for nothing of note ever happening there. Unfortunately, something of note has been happening, as for the past few weeks a number of soldiers have been having terrible nightmares of whispers, scratches, and disintegrating worlds. One even went insane and had to be locked up in the dungeons! Riqardo thankfully hasn't experienced any bad dreams. 

The party visits the insane soldier - Myrc - whispering to himself in the dungeon. Betsy opens a direct line of communication through telepathy and gets bombarded with a stream-of-thought barrage of disjointed sentences. Through sheer force of will Betsy interrupts the flow and focuses Myrc long enough to hold a brief conversation. He talks of a darkness in the mountains that will consume all. For Betsy this is accompanied by images of a specific location in the mountains (that isn't familiar). Myrc names the darkness as 'Ardzu', a name that resonates with Betsy although she doesn't recognize it.

Over dinner they meet back up with Fillegrin, who wants the party to investigate the mystery so he can make a ballad about it. After encouragement by the party, he gets on stage to perform. Nun throws a mug of beer at him with a Mage Hand.

That night, the party has some unsettling dreams of scratching nails on walls and wailing in the distance and the sound of sand scraping on stone. Betsy's dream is somewhat embellished, as she sees a pulsing light of an inconceivable colour emitted from a gem that's composed of impossible geometry. An entity gives her the order to retreive this gem, and she's shown a series of images of the mountains to the north west. She relays this to the group the next day, but in the absence of a sense of urgency they decide to shelf this for later.

The next day the party talks to the captain about all of this and learn that she has no idea what's going on or how to handle it. They also notice Vello throwing glances towards Mariun throughout the day. Afterwards the party sets out with Vello on the road north, deciding to stop by Aultdin to see what's up.

During an evening on the travel, Rowan spies Vello sneakily heading out of his tent in the night. She follows him and sees Vello touching the blade of Mariun's halberd, and the blade starts shimmering - just like in the halls of the Underground Library when Mariun killed a goblin. Vello whispers something underneath his breath. Rowan doesn't hear the words, but she does get the impression of something big, black, and menacing. Rowan detects magic on the halberd and perceives the aura pulsating - almost like breathing or a beating heart. She wakes up Mariun and they decide to confront Vello about his inappropriate behaviour. He reveals that he has discerned that the blade is made of a dragon's scale, and that has drawn his intense interest. They talk a bit more about appropriate and inappropriate behaviour and go back to sleep.

After a few days, the party arrives at the town of Aultdin, where they hear shouting on the streets...