---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Australia/Session 5.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/australia/session-5/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Saturday, May 16th, 1925
The gang is on their way to the entrance of the Great City of Pnakotus. Shark is drawn within himself reliving the Yith experience but manages to drive well nonetheless. Suddenly Lawrence feels like the environment here is familiar to him. Then he remembers a vision he had while staring in the Golden Mirror in Peru: a vision of him in a desert near some red rock outcroppings, and a dark hole extending into the earth. In the distance he thinks he recognizes the rock formation, and that the dark hole might be an alternative way into the Great City.

They turn the car around and head towards the place of Lawrence's vision, and after an hour's drive they come to the location. The hole extends steeply into the ground and a stale air flows out from it. They toss a torch down and find that the hole extends quite steeply for around 30 meters, after which it levels out horizontally. They also see a disturbance in the sand that they identify as the footprint of a Flying Polyp, but it's probably several weeks old. They secure a rope to the car and rappel down the hole!

Once down, the gang gazes upon the cyclopean might of this ancient Yithian city. They find themselves in underground streets paved with hexagonal stones several meters across. The streets are so wide that the light from their torches hardly reaches the buildings on either side. The buildings themselves are gigantically shaped and hold different doorways without doors. Curiously there are some bridges that extend between buildings high above the streets. They check out the interior of some of the buildings and find that they have intricate mazes of rooms, mostly empty but not ransacked. They do find some signs of previous habitation in a tall table and a large mural painting of dancing Yithians.

Navigating in this Stygian darkness proves to be challenging, but Matthias feels up to the task. Zasu subtly corrects him every now and then. The group is wise to leave chalk markings to mark the way they've gone. After an unknowable time of walking through the maws of the city, the group comes to a split in the path. Dick observes that fresher air is coming from the left, and dank stale air is coming from the right - meaning the right path will lead further down into the city. They have a snack and take the right path, and soon the streets start sloping down gradually bringin them deeper underground.

They wander around in the cloying darkness for what feels like hours, until they come to a single gigantic circular room with other passageways extending from it. Using the Voorish Sign, Matthias detects just the tiniest tendril of blue fog coming from one of the passages. They take this route and, again, walk for hours in these gigantic streets that seem to go on and on, maddeningly so. 

Finally, the streets start to climb up again and the crew finds themself in a curious room. Another completely circular room, some 200 meters across, without any discernable feature on the walls or ceiling. The floor, however, is pulsating softly in a gentle blue glow - the origine of the tendril of fog that they followed. Several other passageways extend from this room, and two of them - one to their left and one sharply to their right - have lines of electrical lights running along them. They inspect the disturbance of the dust in this room and deduce that the left path is less traveled than the right path. They take the left path and wander down more streets - now blissfully illuminated by the lightbulbs.

After a while of walking, sounds echo from up ahead. Footsteps! The party quickly hides in one of the buildings and after a hot 15 minutes they see two men walking from the way they were going. They're plainly dressed in canvas shirts and trousers. One of them is carrying a ladder and has a spiked club attached to his belt - the signature weapon of the Cult of the Sand Bat - and the other is carrying a toolbox and has a curious photocamera around his neck, which the gang deduces must be one of the infamous Lightning Guns!

The group tries to sneak up on the two men but make too much of a noise. Luckily Zasu is more light-footed and she scares the men with a Nosferatu-impression. A fight erupts, where Lawrence clips someone by throwing a rock and Dick swings his Eternal Torch around like a heavy club, which at one point connects heavily to the neck of the man with the spiked club. The man gets knocked out and catches fire. The other man, however, has his Lightning Gun pulled away by Zasu! He responds by grappling with her in order to get it back, giving Matthias an opening to hit with his sword. Zasu manages to chuck the Lightning Gun to Lawrence who instinctively aims it at the man grappling Zasu. As a bolt of lightning erupts from the camera and pierces the man, lighting up his skeleton, Lawrence cocks a smile and says: "Say cheese."

The group pats out the fire on the unconscious man and drag him inside one of the buildings they interrogate him and learn he's called Allan, and he is one of the original miners that came with Robert Huston and now a full-fledged followed of the Father of All Bats. They learn that Robert Huston is the prophet of the Father and is close to nearing godhood himself. They also learn that there are monstrous Guardians of the Sand Bat in this city, who help sacrifice souls to an effigy of the Father that will fuel its return to this plane. They also learn that there's a mysterious creature trapped in this city that shows them where all the tech they're digging up is. Finally, they learn that there's some sort of womb-sac that is said to feed the Father of All Bats when he finally returns.

After all that adventure, the gang is getting tired. They gag Allan and find a safe place to sleep in the Great City of Pnakotus.