---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Mirror Images/Mirror Images.md","dg-permalink":"mirror-images","permalink":"/mirror-images/","hide":true,"tags":["Writing"]}
---

# Mirror Images 

I did not kill my wife. 
Hannah is dead, but I did not kill her.

Not even half a year ago, Hannah and I were happy. Maybe even the happiest we'd ever been. The kind of happy where you don't really realize it until you look back on it afterwards when you find yourself living only in the shadows of life, grasping for faint slivers of light breaking through the dark. We had just bought our first apartment. The place wasn't special in any way, at least not initially, but it was ours. A grand statement of our relationship and love for each other, solidified in a two bedroom apartment on the fourth floor of a complex. It was in an area of town that was neither too close nor too far from the city centre, a purgatory place where you discover whether you crave the vibrant chaos of city life or whether you will soon head for the distant meadows of suburbia. Or, in our case, where you had hoped to go to heaven but instead found nothing but suffering.

We had never met the previous owners. The realtor informed us that they were an elderly couple who had recently emigrated to a small, sunny island in a far away ocean to live out their last years in a quiet haven of warmth and calm. As they preferred not to have to deal with selling or storing all the belongings they hadn't decided to take with them, any furniture and items they left in the apartment would be ours to keep. That was how the mirror got to be in our possession.

We had noticed the thing when we first viewed the apartment. It was hard to miss. As soon as you would open the front door, you would inadvertently be greeted by your own image on the wall on the other end of the narrow and cramped hallway. At the time I guessed the mirror had been put there to create the illusion of a longer and grander hallway, but even doubled in length it wouldn't take more than ten steps to cross. The worn and scuffed wooden floor, fading cream coloured wallpaper and lack of any other features to make it look less like a coffin didn't help the illusion much either, and the reflection of the four plain and unassuming doors - two on each side directly opposite their twins - only gave me the impression of a dark prison corridor lined with cells. Cells that contained evil men, ready to grasp at you with their cold and calloused hands with jagged fingernails as you pass them by.

The only truly defining feature of the hallway and its reflection was the mirror itself. It was shaped like an upside down spearhead and fit in a frame made of a dark wood. The frame was intricately carved with a number of twirly frills along the edges reaching out like fractals, and close inspection would reveal that every curve and bend was followed neatly by the grain of the wood. Even then I thought it looked out of place in the hallway. Not necessarily because it was the only thing that wasn't in some way beige - even the ceiling light was covered with stained glass that warped the meager light from the bulb into a hue that wavered between muddy yellow and tainted bronze - but that it seemed strange for it to actually be in a house. It was the kind of object you would expect to see tucked away in the far corners of thrift stores or antiquaries, but never something that was actually purchased and taken home. Hannah must have felt the same way, because as the realtor took us through the far door on the wall left of the mirror to show us the living room and kitchen, I could see her gaze linger on it like a secret lover, lightly caressing its curves with a gentle tough of her soft and manicured fingers.

The rest of the apartment was as unassuming and bland as the hallway, but we had a vision. We bought the place and moved in, not realizing our vision would soon become a dark and twisted reflection of itself.

---

The first time I noticed something off about the mirror was a few weeks after we moved in. We had started to settle in property and were busy transforming the living room, which suffered from the same lack of decor and personality as the hallway did, into a vibrant place we could shape to our own liking. I had initially wanted to tackle the hallway first, as I couldn't get used to the way the mirror felt superimposed on the space. I also thought there might have been a mould issue somewhere, because whenever I entered the hallway I would get a whiff of a distant and cold stale smell. Hannah insisted on tackling the living room first, however, claiming she had special plans for the hallway.

It happened when I came home from work one November evening. Hannah usually came home before me but that day she had gotten stuck in traffic, so it was pitch black when I opened the front door into the hallway and was met with that dry, mouldy stench. It seemed more present and pervasive. I flicked the light switch, illuminating the hallway in that weak, sickly yellow tinged light. I closed the door behind me, hung my keys on the small peg we affixed next to the door, and was about to absentmindedly take the handful of steps to the living room door when I stopped. There was something odd in the reflection of the mirror. Something wasn't quite right, but I couldn't immediately put my finger on what it was. I walked closer to the mirror, my reflection slowing moving through it's own tunnel towards me like we were both surprised to see each other there. As I got close to the mirror I realized what had struck me as off: in the mirror's reflection, between the door to the bathroom and bedroom on the right hand side, hung a small painting. A painting that wasn't there in the real hallway.

At first I thought it must've been a trick of the light, casting in a weird angle on the mirror to make it seem like a splotch of shadows was something that it wasn't. Closer inspection from different angles proved otherwise. Even though it was small and appeared slightly out of focus or blurred, it was clear that the reflection in the mirror showed a square frame that held a painting. It was difficult to see many details of that mirror painting, but I distinctly got the impression of a desolated field with a single, desiccated tree.

I moved back away from the mirror, more confused than scared at the time. I foolishly started waving my arms around to see if that would somehow interact with the light to make the image disappear. I even went to the part of the wall where the mirror showed that impossible painting to feel around. After a few minutes, I realized there was nothing there to explain the reflection. Not knowing what to do I just went to the living room. I flicked on the lights and sat down on the couch, staring at the wall as my mind wandered to a terrifying explanation. My mother was only a few years older than I was at this point when she was diagnosed with schizophrenia, and I vividly remembered the horrors her delusions and hallucinations put her and us through during my childhood. Memories of being locked in the basement and broken windows assaulted me like a physical force, and when Hannah came home about an hour later I was glad she could pull me out of that dark place. Foolishly I decided to keep my experience with the mirror to myself, as if denying it would keep any mental illness at bay. When we went to bed I made sure not to even remotely look towards that dark reflective surface, but I noticed that Hannah had no such reservations.

---

I don't know why I didn't seek out medical help at the time. I had always prided myself on being a logical thinker and that there had to be a reasonable explanation for everything. Maybe that was also a subconscious effort in my part to keep any signs of schizophrenia at bay. It wouldn't have mattered in the end. I now know that what I saw and experienced isn't from a mental illness. I also think I realized that mentioning what I saw to Hannah would not have made a difference. She wouldn't have wanted to part with the mirror, because as I started to avoid the dark reflections it threw in our hall, she started to become enraptured by it.

Hannah had a routine for when she came home from work, getting into more comfortable clothes and lounge on the couch with a cup of tea. That's the state I would usually find her in when I came home. Considering my earlier experience, it was very therefore very unsettling to find her standing in front of that mirror more and more often when I entered through the front door, absentmindedly stroking the curves of the frame or staring at her own reflection from very close up. Sometimes she would still be wearing her coat and shoes, other times I saw those items distractedly discarded in the hallway as if taking them off was only a fleeting notion. When I would finally manage to get her attention it always surprised her that I was there, even though she should've clearly seen me enter through the door in the mirror's reflection. 

I tried to dismiss this as anything unusual, still clinging to the belief that if I accepted that something inexplicable or unnatural might be going on, I would open the door to a rabbit hole of delusions that would eventually tear me and Hannah apart. I instead settled on a form of cognitive dissonance, where I attributed her behaviour completely to her love for antiques. 

As the weeks went on, her enraptured behaviour stopped surprising or worrying me. I felt myself more confident in my own reasoning and even started to glance into the mirror again. I felt vindicated when I just saw what you would expect to see in a mirror: a reflection of the space it is in and the people it's surrounded by. Confidently filing away my earlier experience as a combination of tiredness and bad lighting, I decided to replace the old ceiling light in the hallway. I threw out the old stained glass cover and ancient lightbulb, attributing the warped alien light it gave off to the extensive burns on the glass. As I screwed in a new bulb, I imagined my next step would be a thorough investigation to find the source of the earthy smell that still clung around the hall like an oppressive weight. My plans were abruptly shattered as I switched the new light on, as the bright, harsh light that now illuminated the pale and colourless hall contrasted sharply with the hallway in the mirror's reflection. The reflected hallway was too dark and too long, the front door wreathed in deep shadows. More so, it again showed a painting hanging between the doors to the bathroom and the bedroom. A painting of a desolated field with a single, desiccated tree. The painting had my immediate focus, so it took me a second to realize that in the mirror image, someone was standing behind me. I only noticed when a fetid, rotting breath rolled down my neck.

---

Hannah heard me scream and came into the hallway, thankfully blocking my view of the mirror with her body. I gasped for breath as I struggled to piece together what I saw amidst the crumbling barriers I had thrown up around myself. Hannah held me close in a tight embrace, until I finally managed to calm down. Not looking at the mirror, we made our way to the living room and sat down. I explained my experiences with the mirror, poured out my fears of mental illness and my terror that it might do to us what my mother's did to our family. Hannah sat and listened to me quietly and peacefully, and that slowly restored a sense of calm to myself. We talked quietly for a while, Hannah both patiently listening to my worried thoughts and offering advice on how to proceed. We agreed it would be best to find a psychiatrist for a diagnosis and treatment, and with the proper help we could weather this together.

I felt relieved as we rounded off our conversation and had almost forgotten her own odd behaviour around the mirror, but as I suggested perhaps getting rid of the mirror, I could feel her stiffen. With a voice that was drenched in forced lightheartedness she said that she didn't think that that would be a good idea. She reasoned with me that removing the mirror would mean I would let my delusions run my life, and that keeping the mirror up and experiencing that in reality there was nothing sinister about it would allow me to conquer my fears instead.

We made love for the last time that night.

The following days I tried to live my life as I usually did. I made an appointment with a psychiatrist but it would be a few weeks before she would have time to see me. In the meantime, I decided to start avoiding the mirror again. I averted my eyes whenever I entered the hallway. When I noticed Hannah gazing longingly into its reflection, I told myself it was just my imagination. This worked for a short while. 

Yesterday I came home from work to find Hannah standing in front of the mirror again, running her soft hands over the smooth frame. I had the faint suspicion she was talking to it, abruptly stopping when I entered. I was about to greet her when she glanced over her shoulder at me with a strange bemused look in her eyes, and then quickly stepped aside into the living room. I was suddenly confronted with my reflection in the mirror. My mirror self was standing in the mirror hallway, the ominous painting clearly present again on the wall to my right, but there was no front door behind me. Instead, the hallway just stretched on like a pale monstrous throat. In that distended mirror hallway I could see more doors as it extended into darkness, and as I finally managed to wrench my head away and quickly walk through to the living room, I could've sworn one of the doors was starting to open, releasing a nauseating wave of decaying stench.

Hannah was sitting on the couch, beholding me with a twisted grin on her face. I resolutely walked past her to the wall where I had hung a photo frame the day before. I grabbed the hammer that was still lying there and made my way back to the hallway. I could see Hannah's face distort into anger as she realized what I was going to do. I brusquely shoved her away as I raised the hammer and rammed it on the mirror. It didn't break. I hit it again and again, but it didn't even make a scratch. Deflated I backed away, Hannah furiously shouting in my face. I let her rage wash over me, numbed by what was happening to me. We decided it would be best if I slept on the couch that night. It was the last rest I would ever get.

---

I woke up with a start in the middle of the night. It was that kind of waking up where you can feel that it's not random - that something happened that woke you up. The kind where you wake up with your heart pounding in your chest because you subconsciously noticed something that wasn't right, even though you can't recall what it was when awake. I squinted as the harsh glare of my phone screen told me it was just after 3 at night. I lay still on the couch. The silence of the night was weighing down on me, when a faint noise suddenly ripped it away and exposed me to the cold reality. I shivered as I heard the noise again, longer this time. A long, drawn out creak moaned from the hallway. We had been living in the apartment for several months now and I knew all the noises it made. That creak was not one I recognized.

I slid from the couch. I tried to pad quietly across the cold wooden floor on my bare feet, making my way to the kitchen. I can't recall if I assumed that whatever made the noise in the hallway was just an ordinary intruder or burglar, but it felt like a good idea to have a knife in my hand. As I picked it up I glanced at the blade and I saw my own reflection. It seemed even more distorted than anything the mirror had shown me. I looked weary, exhausted, and my eyes were shrouded in darkness, with the exception of a faint reflection of light that came from underneath the door to the hallway.

I opened the door and let my eyes adjust briefly to the bright light on the ceiling. It was as I usually found it: front door with the pegs for keys, a small rack with our winter coats and our boots haphazardly discarded underneath it, and Hannah looking in the reflection of the mirror. She was dressed in her pyjamas and she was gently swaying from left to right, constantly staring in that mirror. I wanted to ask her what she was doing but my throat was inexplicably dry and I could only manage a half croak. She turned her eyes towards me and briefly shot a look at the knife. Her lips curled up in a wry smile as she slightly tilted her head to the side. "Come," she said. "Just stand here with me and enjoy this moment."

I felt myself moving towards her, though I can't say whether it was a conscious choice on my part or a forced resignation of my own will. I stood in front of her, my back to the mirror, and looked into her eyes. Her eyes seemed as dark as mine had. She gently placed her hands on my shoulders and turned me around, towards the mirror. I kept my eyes cast down as she wrapped her warm arms around my waist, and another shiver ran up my spine. I looked up to the mirror, expecting once again to see some distorted version of our hallway, but was met with something I hadn't expected. I saw our hallway as it was. No distended corridors, no paintings that elicited a feeling of dread and sorrow, just our normal hallway.

Except that I wasn't in it.

The only person I saw in that reflected hallway was Hannah, but not as she stood behind me caressing my chest with smooth, gentle strokes. I saw Hannah screaming a silent scream, fear painted clearly on her face. I couldn't hear her, but I'm sure her screaming intensified as I saw the reflected hallway slowly pull back into the darkness, revealing more doors that slowly opened in unison to let even darker shadows leak out towards her and envelop her. I don't know what happened to her after that, as I then noticed the Hannah behind me had slowly slid her hands up over my shoulders and I could see a cold, pale hand webbed with dark veins and long bony fingers with broken and jagged nails stroking my cheek. She let out a contended sigh that smelled like a grave.

I must've screamed, because the police broke down the door around half an hour later. They found me sitting in the hallway covered in blood and with a lifeless body at my feet. I offered no resistance as one of the police officers cuffed me and led me out the door. One of the others was reporting back on his radio, explaining that I had murdered my wife. I started to protest: that wasn't my wife, I did not kill *my wife*, but my words stopped short in my throat as I only then realized there was something different in the hallway - the real hallway. On the wall, between the doors of the bathroom and bedroom hung a painting. A painting of a desolated field with a single desiccated tree in it. And from that tree, I could see a hanged woman softly swaying left to right in an unknown wind.