---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ttrpg/call-of-cthulhu/masks-of-nyarlathotep/players/journals/egypt/session-2/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Wednesday, February 18th, 1925
The group heads to the Egyptian Museum in the late afternoon to see if they can talk with Dr. Kafour, a supposed expert on the Black Pharaoh’s place in Egypt’s history. They initially find him uninterested in talking, but when they mention the Black Pharaoh his eyes light up in academic excitement and he agrees to meet the group for dinner and drinks in the evening. After exiting the museum, Shark takes a moment to teach Elliot about sharkour. After some practice they have a meaningful conversation on a rooftop considering the morality and dangers of their quest.

Later that evening the group meets Dr. Kafour in the Turf Club, an upstanding restaurant in the Ezbekiya Gardens. Dick explains that they’re looking into the death of Jackson Elias and their investigations have led them on the path of the Black Pharaoh. Dr. Kafour mentions he met with Jackson Elias in November last year. Jackson wanted to talk with him about the Black Pharaoh and the Carlyle Expedition. After initial introductions they planned for a follow-up meeting, but Jackson never showed up for it. Kafour mentions he thought Jackson looked nervous and paranoid.

Kafour then goes on a lengthy academic monologue about the Black Pharaoh and Egypt’s 3rd Dynasty. Key points of information are:

- The 3rd Dynasty started with Pharaoh *Zoser* and his vizier *Imhotep*, general historical teachings give an order of succession throughout this period of time, but if you look at all the original historical texts available, they paint a contradictory picture and it’s actually quite unknown who ruled Egypt for what period of time.
- According to folklore, a powerful sorcerer named *Nephren-Ka* came to Egypt during this time and he was said to have come from *Irem, the City of Pillars*. A mythical lost city mentioned in the Qur’an as well as in the Al-Azif, or *Necronomicon*, from the mad monk Abdel al-Hazred. Nephren-Ka fought with Zoser’s successors and finally became the ruler of Egypt for a period longer than any man could be alive.
- Nephren-Ka followed a god named *Nyarlathotep*, but who was known in Egypt as the Black Pharaoh. Nyarlathotep is a god from an ancient pantheon known as the Outer Gods who are associated with chaos and madness. Other notable Outer Gods are *Azathoth*, who is said to devour the whole universe at the end of times, and *Nodens*, the Lord of the Abyss who is rumoured to oppose Nyarlathotep’s schemes, but not for benevolent reasons.
    - Matthias recognizes Azathoth and Nodens as being featured on the Mask taken from the Ju-Ju House.
- Through legends and folklore, it seems Nephren-Ka and the Black Pharaoh became interchangeable in the minds of people, and Nephren-Ka became known as the Black Pharaoh himself. This makes it difficult to distinguish deeds of the sorcerer from deeds of the god. Several legends and tales are that Nephren-Ka had control over a terrifying giant beast, of which the Sphinx is a miniature representation and that Nephren-Ka’s voice carried over the land like a black wind that destroyed whatever he wished.
- At the end of the 3rd Dynasty, Nephren-Ka/Black Pharaoh’s reign was ended by *Sneferu*. Sneferu thwarted the Black Pharaoh’s evil magic with the help of Isis and slew Nephren-Ka. Then he rose to power as the first pharaoh of the 4th Dynasty. From that time there is a prophecy that states that the Black Pharaoh will one day rise again, at which point the old world ends and a new age begin in which the dominance of mankind ends and the Black Pharaoh’s followers will find truth and freedom.
- During his reign, Sneferu built several pyramids. The first one, at Meidum, was said to have been built to contain Nephren-Ka’s body but the pyramid collapsed before construction was complete. It’s said that Nephren-Ka’s body was instead entombed in a different pyramid which is now known as the Bent Pyramid in Dahshur. No secret tombs have ever been found, however. Legends say Sneferu also built the nearby Red Pyramid in Dahshur to guard the land if Nephren-Ka should ever rise from the dead.

The group asks some more pointed questions about Isis and if there’s a cult devoted to her, but Dr. Kafour doesn’t know of any existing ones. When asked about the Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh he tells the group that after the Black Pharaoh’s demise, his followers fought for his return but were eventually chased off to the south beyond the Sudan. Centuries later the Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh reappeared and is still present this day, but he is unsure whether the Brotherhood now has any religious purpose or is just a ordinary criminal organization.

When asked about the items sold to Roger Carlyle by Faraz Najjar, Kafour mentions the golden crown with a zircon sounds like the one old *Queen Nitocris* was told to have had. Queen Nitocris was a cruel and evil queen who reigned in the 6th Dynasty, and she was said to be a follower of the Black Pharaoh. Her reign was so malignant that she reportedly was buried alive in an unnamed secret tomb. Kafour doesn’t know anything about the bust, but when confronted with Dick’s experiences he theorizes that perhaps it serves as a spiritual link to the Black Pharaoh himself.

When the group relays their experiences with the Dark Man and Lester Goodman in Arkham, Kafour theorizes that the Dark Man may be another aspect of Nyarlathotep. He mentions he’s also heard of a cult in Kenya that worships a monstrosity known as the *Bloody Tongue*, which he believes is just another mask of Nyarlathotep.

At one point in the conversation, Matthias casually slips in mention of magic and spells. Although Dr. Kafour instantly denies any belief in magic, the group quickly detects that he is lying and instead has a very active interest in the practical sides of magic. Matthias reveals that he is also a dabbler, and Kafour excitedly explains he knows how to perform the *Voorish Sign*: a magical gesture that briefly intensifies one’s magical abilities, shows new layers of reality, and is said to be able to temporarily ward against malignant entities. They agree to meet Dr. Kafour on friday at the Museum to be taught the Sign.

Finally, the evening winds down and the restaurant closes. The group says farewell to Dr. Kafour and heads back to their hotel for a good night’s rest.

---

### Dateline: Thursday, February 19th, 1925
The group gets up and meets with Saleem again. Shark tries to introduce him to sharkour, but first the group decides to go to the Cairo Bulletin newspaper to look at issues from the date of the bloody orgy ritual that Warren Besart described to the group. They meet with editor Nigel Wassif, who is happy to show them the archives. They find no mention of a massive amount of people going missing, and theorize it’s probably because missing person reports weren’t really a thing at this time in Egypt. They do find some articles about the Carlyle Expedition from that time. From the articles the familiar picture is painted of the expedition arriving in May 1919, digging near Giza, then Saqqara and finally Dahshur. Then in July 1919 the Expedition is noted to move to Kenya for a holiday, for the sun and hard labour proved too much for Carlyle. Some pictures of that time show Hypatia Masters brandishing a photocamera, but closer inspection reveals that this was an older photo taken shortly after the Expedition arrived in Egypt. Looking back, it seem there are no pictures of Roger Carlyle or Hypatia Masters after the Expedition moved to Dahshur, and Aubrey Penhew took up the role of spokesperson at that time.

Nigel comments that they had to reuse old photos, because the Carlyle Expedition was very horrid in keeping visitors and journalists away from their dig sites. Especially Aubrey Penhew was noted as being terribly secretive. Nigel then goes on to explain that all the successive expeditions funded by the Penhew Foundation have had this same air of secrecy. Normally archeological expeditions welcome journalists to show their findings and their excavations, but the Penhew Foundation expeditions do not follow this trend, including the current Clive Expedition. Nigel suspects it must be because these expeditions secretly smuggle artefacts out of Egypt to England, which is breaking Egyptian law concerning archeological findings. He casually wonders if that’s also what happened to the Clive Expedition and their stolen mummy.

Surprised by this statement, the group presses for more information and Nigel gets out a newspaper from last November. It states that the Clive Expedition was excavating at the Pyramid of Mycerinus on the Giza plateau, when they unearthed a secret tomb that held an unidentified mummy. There were no identifying hieroglyphs, but the funeral drapings were exquisite and seemed to indicate that the unknown mummy was a female. The Expedition notified Egyptian authorities and plans were made to extract the alabaster sarcophagus and mummy from the pyramid for further investigation. Three days later, however, a scream was heard in the night from the pyramid and the sarcophagus and mummy were missing. The two Egyptian police guards who were guarding the tomb were also mysteriously missing and haven’t ben found yet. They’re presumed dead. It’s unknown and inexplicable how such a heavy sarcophagus got moved without a trace in such a short amount of time.

Nigel mentions that soon after the Clive Expedition packed up at Giza and moved their dig site to the ruins near *Memphis*, where they currently still work. When pressed for more inside information on the Clive Expedition, Nigel mentions he does know that one of the expedition’s archeologists was fired shortly before the move to Memphis: a Dutchman named *Jan-Willem van Heuvelen*. Supposedly he is still in Cairo somewhere, but Nigel doesn’t know where.

The group decides it’s probably a good idea to talk to Jan-Willem and they ask Saleem if he knows of any Dutch bars. He does not, but he’ll look into it and report back to the group when he knows more. The group sits down to plan their next moves. They currently still have the afternoon to fill, but tomorrow the whole day is filled with magic lessons from Dr. Kafour for those interested. Shark and Elliot express little interest in this, and agree to spend that time arranging for transportation: at least a car, and preferably also a boat that can hold a car. Any free time will be spent in sharkour.

For the rest of the day, the group decides to head to the *Mosque of Ibn Tulun*: a place Faraz Najjar said the Brotherhood was interested in. They come up to the mosque-turned-sanitarium and walk on the courtyard. There they see a bunch of patients enjoying some fresh air with some wards, when suddenly one breaks away from the group. A young man with only a withered black stump where his right arm used to be, and an equally disfigured and scarred right half of the face. He points his left hand at Dick and starts yelling in Arabic, but at one point he switches to English and yells “Doom! Your soul are doom! Black Pharaoh in soul! Go to Mother Nuri! Mother Nuri save life!”

Before he can say more, wardens overpower the man and give him a powerful sedative…

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 3\|Session 3]]