---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 1.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/egypt/session-1/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Tuesday, February 17th, 1925
After a magical week on a boat, the gang arrives in Port Said, Egypt. After being ferried to the docks on a smaller vessel, dodging scams left and right, the group has to wait for their heavy cargo (bust of the Black Pharaoh, Matthias’ suit of armor) to be offloaded as well. They then spend most of the remaining day in the train to Cairo. In Cairo they’re approached by many dragomen (guides) who offer many different hotels to them. Matthias takes the time to question each dragoman about their hotels so he can put up a convincing lie if needed in the future. Meanwhile a dragoman named Ibi tries to convince the group to go to Hotel du Sud, and before they know it their bags get taken by a group of young men! The group gives chase and wrestle their bags back a few streets after, accusing the young men of thievery. The young men are very confused as they point to a building that’s advocated as Hotel du Sud. The group elects to walk a bit further into town to stay at the Shepheard’s Hotel instead. Matthias and Zasu take the Pyramid Suite, which offers a view on the Giza plateau and an inverted pyramid hot tub of dubious comfortableness. The group then reflects on their knowledge of the current state of affairs in Egypt:

---

Since the opening of the tomb of Tutankhamun in 1922, a wave of Egyptomania has spread across the world. Egypt and specifically Cairo are profiting enormously from this international attention, and tourism is at an all-time high. On the other hand, Egypt has only recently regained independence after a revolution in 1922 after being a British protectorate for 40 years. The British still have a large influence and presence in Egypt, however, and maintain discretionary powers over their imperial communications, protection of the Suez Canal, and protection of its own foreign interests. This continued British presence has led to civil unrest and political intrigue. It also fuels a general resentment towards English-speaking foreigners.

One particularly sensitive area is the movement of ancient artefacts and treasures out of Egypt by foreign archeologists. The Egyptian government strictly polices this activity. The relationship between the foreign expeditions and the Egyptian government is very strained, but protected by the British influence. Illegal removal of artefacts is a criminal offence and can result in a year in prison. It is possible to obtain a license for shipping of antiquities from the Egyptian Museum if the authorities can be convinced that the items are of minor historical interest.

---

### Dateline: Wednesday, February 18th, 1925

The group gets up and arranges a respected dragoman to act as their guide and translator for the day: *Saleem Naziz*. They consider the leads they have and decide to keep things close to Cairo first and seek out *Faraz Najjar* and *Warren Besart* based on a letter Jackson Elias had in his possession ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM1] Letter from Warren Besart\|[AM1] Letter from Warren Besart]]). They hit up the Street of Jackals, being navigated through cramped alleys filled with humans, animals and all manner of wares by Saleem. There they find that the shop of Faraz Najjar has burned down a long time ago and nothing has been rebuild ever since. Passers-by invoke Allah when they pass, and Saleem discovers that the locals believe this place to be desecrated: around 5 or 6 years ago a fiery demon descended upon the store and destroyed it with raging fire. After some monetary stimulus, the group gets informed that Faraz Najjar was badly burned but survived the inferno and he currently has a shop in the Street of Potters.

The group makes their way to the Street of Potters and finds Najjar’s new store. Inside they find all manner of worthless tourist junk and bric-a-brac, sold at prices entirely too high. Faraz Najjar immediately greets his customers and they can see the left side of his face is indeed badly burned. Faraz tries to pawn off more crap on them, advertising a jeweled scimitar as a mystical sword and offering the ancient garments of Cleopatra to Zasu. Dick then says they’re here about Roger Carlyle, and Najjar’s demeanor drops. His eyes start bulging and he starts waving the scimitar mencingly, spluttering that he doesn’t want to do business anymore, and he urges the group to go because he’s closing the shop. With some calm persuasion and another waving of money, Dick manages to calm Najjar down. Najjar agrees to talk with the group about the Carlyle Expedition, but not here and now. He urges them to meet them in the al-Hussein mosque that afternoon for a talk under Allah’s watchful eyes. The group agrees.

To kill time until then, the group hits up the French Embassy to ask about Warren Besart’s whereabouts. Lawrence tries to convince the clerk that they have a personal letter that they must deliver to him. This is met with suspicion, but when Dick leans in and name-drops that the letter is from Erica Carlyle, the clerk obliges and gets Besart’s last known address: Red Door in the Street of Scorpions. Saleem sighs as he realizes they have to walk all the way back to the Old City again, but he manages to convince the group to take a carriage this time instead.

Arriving at the Street of Scorpions, they are glad to see there’s only one house with a red door. Inside they find a tailor, who informs them through Saleem that Warren Besart lives here: he rents a small room in the back in return for cheap labour. The tailor wants to know if Besart’s in trouble, because if he is he will immediately evict the junkie. Convinced that Besart is not in any trouble, the tailor directs them to the Darb al-Ahmar market place.

The group heads to the nearby market place and looks around. Zasu then notices a stooped over man in a dirty djellaba with a European face, complete with sunken eyes and gaunt cheeks. Guessing this must be Besart, she goes to talk to him. Besart immediately is startled and starts running off, but he doesn’t get far before Lawrence tackles him. There he starts sniveling and whining to not hurt him, but they manage to calm him down and say they just want to talk about the Carlyle Expedition. Besart sighs wearily and leads them back to his small and dirty room, filled with stained pillows and a stank of low quality hashish and opium. There he takes a long drag from his hookah as he starts telling his experience with the Carlyle Expedition.

---

The abridged story is that Warren Besart acted as a purchasing agent for Roger Carlyle and got some old items from Faraz Najjar, which he shipped illegally to the Penhew Foundation in London. Later when the Carlyle Expedition came to Egypt he acted as their local guide and translator. He then tells that the Expedition was digging at the *Bent Pyramid* in *Dahshur* until one day Jack Brady came to Besart and told him that the rest entered the pyramid and had disappeared. The next morning Roger Carlyle, Aubrey Penhew, Hypatia Masters and Robert Huston reappeared, exhuberant about some find, but they wouldn’t tell what it was. An old Egyptian lady then sought out Besart and said her son had worked as a digger for the Expedition, but that they were consorting with an ancient evil. She said all their souls, except Besart’s and Brady’s, were lost. She advised Besart to go to the ruins near *Meidum* the night before the new moon.

Besart tells the rest of the story with fear in his eyes and a tremble in his voice as he hits the hashish hard. He describes hiding at the location near Meidum, where he saw Carlyle, Penhew, Masters and Huston in robes. They were then joined by over a hundred revelers in a scene of madness and debauchery where they disrobed, self-mutilated and drank their blood. Then Besart starts rambling about structures in the desert coming alive, and horrific creatures crawling up from the sands to their out the throats of the celebrants. In the end, only Carlyle and his fellows, and a fifth other person of Egyptian descent remained alive in a sea of corpses. Then Besart goes on to describe a giant five-headed creature which he recognized as the sphinx emerging from the sands and swallowing all the corpses. Besart then fainted. When he woke up he ran away in the desert, but to his horror he saw rows upon rows of dark sphinxes in the sand waiting to devour the world. Besart fainted again and was found by a man and his mother. He hasn’t been the same ever since, having terrible nightmares that only drugs keep at bay. The group supplements his drug fund a bit.

Full story: [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/Egypt Clues#[EG1] Warren Besart's Statement\|[EG1] Warren Besart's Statement]]

---

After they leave the broken shell of a man be, they head to the al-Hussein mosque in time for their appointment with Faraz Najjar. He leads them to a private room and pours them a mint tea. When asked what his dealings with the Carlyle Expedition were, he states that in the beginning of 1919 he was approached by Warren Besart who acted on behalf of Roger Carlyle. Apparently Carlyle was interested in any artefacts or objects that related to the Black Pharaoh, a mystical person from Egypt’s history who said to have reigned in the 3rd Dynasty and was supposedly immortal. The Black Pharaoh was reported to be a powerful sorcerer from a distant land, but its reign was ended by *Sneferu*, the first pharaoh of the 4th Dynasty, who was said to have defeated the Black Pharaoh with the help of the goddess Isis. That’s all Najjar knows about the Black Pharaoh, but he suggests visiting *Dr. Kafour* in the Egyptian Museum if they want to learn more.

Najjar explains he had some items that were supposedly related to that period, and he sold them to Besart: *a small drum* that was said to have mystical powers, a *large bust* depicting the Black Pharaoh, an *old scroll* in hieroglyphs that was said to detail the entrance to a hidden room in an unnamed pyramid in which the Black Pharaoh was said to be intombed, and a *thick golden circlet* set with a large zircon, which was said to be the crown of the Black Pharaoh and the secret to his immortality. After the items were sold, Najjar claims to have never seen or heard from Carlyle or Besart again.

The group tells Najjar to stop lying to them, and he excuses himself to Allah when he continues to tell the group that he may have gotten these artefacts through less than honourable means: he stole them from a local businessman named *Omar al-Shakti*. Only later did he discover that al-Shakti was of the Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh. Najjar had heard of the Brotherhood before, but didn’t believe in their existence until they came to his shop not long after the deal with Carlyle. They beat him up and then summoned a fiery demon from a cold iron brazier they brough. The demon burned Najjar’s shop and half his face, but he was allowed to escape.

When asked about Omar al-Shakti physical appearance, Najjar gives a description that very closely resembles the description Warren Besart gave of the mysterious fifth figure that was involved with Carlyle’s obscene ritual. Najjar claims not to know much more about the Brotherhood, for he wouldn’t like to cross them again, but he does tell the investigators that he’s heard rumours that the Brotherhood has recently become interested in the *mosque of Ibn Tulun* on the south side of Cairo. He reveals that the mosque no longer serves a religious purpose, but has been in use as a mental institution for quite some time now. He names one of the warden of the institution: *Ahmed al-Dhahabi*.

With that, Najjar bids the group farewell. He warns them to never contact him again, and advises them to just leave the Brotherhood alone and go back home. Nothing good can come from dealing with the Brotherhood!

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 2\|Session 2]]