---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 3.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/egypt/session-3/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Thursday, February 19th, 1925
The patient who told Dick that he has the Black Pharaoh in his soul, and that he should go to mother Nuri, is sedated and dragged away by wardens. The group gives Saleem money to bribe the wardens, and they find out the patient’s name is Ubaid. They don’t have much more information on him, but direct the group to one of the mosque’s psychiatrists: Dr. Mahmout Abdar. Initially Dr. Abdar is reluctant to divulge private information of patients to strangers, but the group makes a strong case about getting Ubaid to speak again, for the first time in years. They slowly manage to persuade the doctor to talk to Ubaid again when the sedatives wear off, to see if they can get him to talk again and to aid him in his recovery.

While they wait for the sedated Ubaid to wake up, the group lounges around the mosque. Dick talks to some janitorial staff but learns nothing new. Elliot perches himself on the walls of the mosque, checking the necropolis below, but he equally finds nothing of note. The rest of the group decides to talk to one of the mosque’s ulama - a spiritual adviser - and they find themselves in a small office in a sidebuilding of the mosque. They’re greeted by an elderly man who introduces himself as Ahmed al-Dhahabi. They exchange pleasantries about Ahmed’s work in the mosque - to help the patients with their religious problems and to cite the Qur’an to them at times of need. In the small office they find it decorated as they would expect, except for a wooden door at the back of the room. Judging by the outside dimensions of the building, that door would have to lead to a very small space. This intrigues the group. What also intrigues them are the tattoos that are sparsely showing on Ahmed’s skin. They fail to see enough to glean any meaning from it, so Shark decides to cause a scene by breaking a caraf. Zasu tries to get a closer look on the tattoos as Ahmed reaches down to pick up the pieces, but he notices her and immediately gets angry and defensive. After a short exchange, the group is curtly asked to leave the man alone. They leave unsatisfied.

By now, Ubaid is starting to wake up and the group goes to talk to him. Dr. Abdar and two colleagues are eagerly taking notes. Ubaid is still heavily sedated, but shows surprising clarity. He tells Dick that he has to go to El Wasta, where his mother Nuri lives. Only she has what it takes to cleanse Dick’s soul of the Black Pharaoh’s grasp. Ubaid goes on to explain that he sees a dark man standing behind Dick, grasping his heart and slowly squeezing. He only saw this once before, years ago, on white folk at Dahshur. He was working as a digger for some expedition, and one day the expedition’s principals suddenly all had the grasp of the dark man on their hearts. The difference with Dick is that where the dark man is only touching his heart, with the others their heart was completely crushed in the dark man’s grip. The group quickly deduces that this must refer to the Carlyle Expedition.

Ubaid continues to explain that after he saw this, he fled his worksite in fear and returned home to his mother in El Wasta. Things were fine for a while, until the Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh found him and set the Children of the Black Pharaoh, shadows writhing in the sand, on him and his mother, tearing away his arm and ravaging the side of his face. When asked, Ubaid explains that the Children of the Black Pharaoh are creatures with human bodies but terrible animal heads. Matthias recalls these creatures from ancient Egyptian myths and legends, and the group is also reminded of a bust at the Misr House of a man with a crocodile for a head, and Lawrence’s vision in the Golden Mask in Peru.

By this time, the sedatives have started to wear off more and Ubaid is visibly returning to a state of panic and trauma. Matthias discerns that only the heavy sedation allows the man to have a semblance of sanity, and he relates this observation back to the psychiatrists. As Ubaid is now truly getting in a frenzy, the group decides to leave the mosque. Matthias make one last mental note to do research on the fragments of tattoos they saw on Ahmed al-Dhahabi, and particularly to check if they match any symbols of a Cult of Isis.

---
### Dateline: Friday, February 20th, 1925
The next day, the group splits up. While Matthias, Zasu, Lawrence and Dick head to the Egyptian Museum for a magical date with Dr. Kafour, Shark and Elliot go around with Saleem arranging for a motor vehicle and other supplies needed for a trip to Egypt’s countryside. While on the streets, they notice that they’re being followed by two gruff man. They decide to hide in ambush in an alley, and they successfully surprise the two stalkers. Shark tells Saleem to run and hide, while Elliot jabs one in the jaw. A short kerfuffle follows where Shark and Elliot come out on top. They manage to knock one man unconscious and send the other running, and from both men they’ve torn a necklace with a familiar symbol on it: an inverted ankh, the sign of the Brotherhood. Shark and Elliot then awkardly sharkour away.

Back in the museum, the group is learning to perform the [[TTRPG/Games/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Spells/Voorish Sign\|TTRPG/Games/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Spells/Voorish Sign]]. One by one they get it down, seeing different layers of reality as a multicolored hue superimposed over their normal vision. Disturbingly, it seems like something unseeable is moving within that new layer of reality. Matthias is uncomfortably reminded of the time that reality broke for him when he performed the Chant of Thoth in England, and he saw an ominous violet mist grasp out for him. Matthias immediately gets hit with a bout of paranoia and is convinced one of his friends is showing him these terrible visions. Zasu is unable to convince her fiancé of their good intents, and Matthias leaves the group to go to a library for some quiet research.

The group reconvenes at their hotel and Shark and Elliot tell of their experiences. The group decides it’s time to leave Cairo for now, and the best thing to do now is to head to El Wasta the next day. Dick has one thing on his mind for this evening still: to scope out Ahmed al-Dhahabi’s office at the mosque of Ibn Tulun…

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 4\|Session 4]]