---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ttrpg/call-of-cthulhu/masks-of-nyarlathotep/players/journals/egypt/session-8/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Monday, February 23rd, 1925
As the flash and screech die down, the group quickly decides to take cover in the dark forest of pillars in this room. They hear a human voice talking in an imperative tone in the demon language of Aklo. Shortly after, they hear the sound of sharp objects clicking on marble: 2 creatures are approaching. The group elects to leave them searching for now and continue sneaking down the room. Further on the light is slightly better and the group is treated to a few sights: first, they see a narrow set of steps set into the marble floor of the room. It appears to be leading deep underground, and the edge of a ruby mist can be seen belowgrounds. A faint shrieking and wailing seems to come from down there. Second, the group sees a large pool of water, but the water’s surface appears to be silvery and opaque. On the edge of the pool is a large wooden pole with a pulley system extending over the water - used to either lower someone in or lift them out. Closer investigation show that although the water seems to be still, a multitude of tiny ripples can be seen moving underneath the surface.

Finally, the group gets a look at what’s looking around for them: on the bottom half it seems like emaciated and deformed human beings, but their heads are terrifying: one looking like a [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/Egypt Images#Cat\|dessicated cat]] and the other like a [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/Egypt Images#Falcon\|foul falcon]]! Matthias’ mind breaks at the sight of these creatures and the terrifying conclusions their existence draws: maybe the ancient Egyptians weren’t all wrong?? Matthias starts trembling heavily and loses his grip on reality.

---

The group notices the creatures are slowly skulking about, apparently looking for the investigators but not finding them yet. They decide to make use of this and stalk onwards through the pillars, searching for the human that gave the demonic commands to these creatures. Slightly further on, they find what they’re looking for: a man standing on a large square dais of white marble, its top 2 meters off the black marble floor. The man is wearing black robes with an elaborate silver inverted ankh embroidered on the front. He appears to be looking out into the room, vigilant. He is not alone, however: behind him is a large stone sarcophagus - which James Gardner identifies as being the stolen sarcophagus - and flanking the sarcophagus are two additional half-man half-animal terrors: one resembling a [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/Egypt Images#Crocodile\|crocodile]] and one resembling an [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/Egypt Images#Ibis\|ibis]].

---

The group devises a distraction: Shark attempts to throw plinky coins across the pool to lure attention there. His aim is completely off, however, and the coins ploink in the pool instead. Immediately a [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/Egypt Images#Leeches in the Pool\|swarm of arm-thick leeches]] come writhing to the surface. This alerts the cultist priest and he orders the Ibis to investigate. The gang gets out their weapons and right when the Ibis spots them, Shark plants 2 bullets from Holy Sally in the creature’s skull. With a flash of white light, it goes down.

The cultist yells more orders and makes his way to the pool, spreads out his arms and starts chanting magical words. Matthias discerns through his fractured mind that this is a spell used for contacting others. Lawrence tries to distract him by shooting him, but the bullets only clip the priest and although hurt, he finishes the spell. Matthias runs in with the Sword of Akmallah, but his trembling hands betray him and he doesn’t land a hit. The priest, in response, tries to wrestle Matthias into the pool but he does not succeed. Shark comes barging in and shoves the priest into the pool instead, and he is immediately beset upon by dozens of squirming leeches, rending his flesh from his bones and ripping away the skin from his skull.

Meanwhile, the Cat and Falcon are running towards the group but Zasu wards them off by performing the Voorish Sign. They halt momentarily, wary of her, scoping her out, and Zasu embellishes on the effect by using her acting skills to make them believe she is the most powerful sorceress of New York. It succeeds, and the creatures hold their distance for now.

Dick, in the meantime, has made his way to the dais and attempts to blow his shotgun at the Crocodile. He misses the shot and is quickly locked in a struggle with the Crocodile who is attempting to snap Dick’s head off. Lawrence attempts to help Dick out by shooting at the Crocodile but it has a thick skin. Zasu tries shadowplay to distract the Crocodile to no avail. Matthias also runs over and swings the Sword of Akmallah, severing the creature’s tail. It roars out in pain and attempts to bite Matthias’ head off. Matthias dodges by cowering in a corner, and Dick takes the opportunity to plant his shotgun at the base of the creature’s skull and blows its head clean off, showering Matthias in offal and brain.

By now the Cat and Falcon have shaken their fear of Zasu and run over to her. Shark attempts to intercept but suddenly feels a slimy claw at his leg! The devoured corpse of the priest is inhabited by a [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/Egypt Images#Leech Host\|host of leeches]] and it’s crawling out of the pool! Shark points down Holy Sally and quickly blasts the creature away. Shark continues his way to the Cat and they engage in a wrestling match, which ends with Shark tossing the Cat in the pool as well, where it’s immediately devoured by leeches. Unfortunately Zasu is unable to avoid the perilous peck of the Falcon and takes a grievous wound to the shoulder. She falls unconscious. This enrages Matthias and he comes rushing in with the sword, but he takes a nasty cut himself as well. Shark has reloaded his gun by now and empties several bullets in the Falcon, downing it as well.

A quiet falls in the chamber, but only for a moment as the Leech-infested Cat-corpse comes crawling out of the pool. Lawrence runs up and downs it with a few bullets, but not before taking a severe wound to the thigh himself. He remains conscious but is bleeding a lot.

A quiet falls again, this time unbroken, and the group quickly starts tending to their wounds. Zasu regains consciousness. Inspection of the rest of the chamber reveals a towering dais at the end with two stone thrones situated on them. Movements are made towards the sarcophagus, but Matthias decides to not look at anything anymore and starts staring at the walls. Unfortunately his broken mind makes him see the wall shifting in impossible angles and a gap opening up. His rational mind is able to tell him that this is just a hallucination and that’s it’s not real, and the wall snaps back into place. Matthias has overcome his fear.

Opening the sarcophagus, the group sees a mummy lying there with an ornate Necklace around the neck. Certain that this must be the body of Queen Nitocris, they douse it in hard liquor and set fire to it. Powerful flames shoot up and a dark acrid smoke pours from the sarcophagus. When it dies down, the bandages have burnt away but the desiccated corpse of the Queen remains unscathed. Lawrence performs the Voorish Sign to see if something has changed, but is met with a strange sight. Normally the Voorish Sign would show impressions, auras and other signs of a multitude of other dimension layered over their current plane of existence. Nothing of that is present here: through the Voorish Sign, this chamber looks exactly the same as it did before. This can mean only one thing: this chamber is not in their dimension…

Next, Dick grabs the Sword of Akmallah and stabs the mummy with it. The Sword goes in the corpse like a hot knife through butter. Dick proceeds to cut up the corpse in many pieces, but Agatha Broadmoor informs them that the corpse is not essential to the ritual: the spirit of Nitocris could, theoretically, also possess a different body. Dick then takes the Sword and rams its tip in the necklace. For a small moment nothing happens, but then the necklace shatters into a million pieces.

Agatha immediately shrieks. She feels a dark energy converging on the room. They have angered the Dark Man greatly and it’s time to run. Dick picks up the decapitated head of Nitocris and the shards of the necklace, and Shark picks up Lawrence who can’t run due to his injured leg. They start to head back up the stairs and the passageways underneath the pyramids. To their terror, the tunnels are filled with the shrieks and screeches of many, many Children of the Sphinx. They try to keep to the shadows and sneak through the tunnels but unsuccessfully so. A Cat comes clawing at Dick but Dick blasts him away with his shotgun. As the tunnels behind them start to fill with dozens of demonic creatures chasing them, the group legs it all the way back to the secret stairs to the Pyramid of Mycerinus. Upon returning to the pyramid, Lawrence perfectly chucks a grenade down the hidden stairs and blasts away the closest group of creatures following them. Dick closes the passageway and Shark swiftly leads the group out of the pyramid, memorizing the route from their way in. The group emerges out on the sands under a clear Egyptian night sky. They’re safe.

The group takes a breather and collects what they’ve accomplished: they’ve destroyed one of the artefacts required for the resurrection of Queen Nitocris, so the ritual cannot take place anymore. It seems they’ve saved the world of a great evil once again. Unfortunately it seems like their efforts have not gone unnoticed, as suddenly dark clouds appear in the sky from nowhere and lightning starts flashing through it. Agatha feels Omar al-Shakti has learned of their actions and is in a vile rage. Considering the reach of the Brotherhood in Egypt, she advises the group to leave the country quickly. The group decides to walk back to the car and head straight for Suez to get on the first boat heading east, towards China. Towards Jack Brady.

On the walk back to the car, Matthias merrily pats Shark, Dick and Lawrence on the shoulder. The lads have done it again! Then he turns around and sees Zasu.

“Who’s that?” He thinks.

“I’ve never seen her before in my life.”

##### Read on: [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Journals/Egypt/Session 9\|Session 9]]