---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 4.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/egypt/session-4/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Friday, February 20th, 1925
Matthias goes to unwind in the library and researches the tattoos he saw on Ahmed al-Dhahabi. He soon learns that the tattoos signify that he’s a mujahideen: a holy warrior of the Islam, and specifically of a group called the Order of Akmallah, which has it original roots in an ancient Egyptian cult of Isis. As the power of Isis was used to battle the Black Pharaoh in ancient times, the group gathers that these must be potential allies and they decide to pay the mosque another visit in the evening to discuss things further. Matthias bribes the guard at the main gate for a small fortune to get in. Shark does a walk-by of al-Dhahabi’s office and sees a young imam lounging around, seemingly on guard duty. Their eyes lock and the young man immediately goes to the mysterious door in the office and starts banging loudly. The group knocks on the door of the office building themselves and they are greeted with Ahmed al-Dhahabi and several other imams brandishing scimitars. The group apologizes for their behaviour earlier and spill the beans on their mission against the Black Pharaoh. Al-Dhahabi leaves for a few minutes and then invites them in his office, where now an even older man is sitting who is introduced as Nessim Efti. The group tells their tales of their fight against the Black Pharaoh. Ahmed al-Dhahabi on his turn tells the group that they’re of the Order of Akmallah, holy warriors of Allah who guard an evil artefact. To do that, Nessim Efti is identified as the wielder of the magical Sword of Akmallah, which can vanquish evil with Allah’s power.

The group warns Ahmed of interest of the Brotherhood in the Mosque, but Ahmed laughs it off. He mentions that two weeks ago two cultists already attempted to steal the evil artefact, but they were rebuked by the power of Allah and now reside in the mosque as mental patients, for Allah took their minds away. Through conversation the group discerns that the Order ascribes all their power and might to Allah, and that they seem to underestimate the true potential of the Brotherhood, seeing them more as thugs and criminals than any real evil.

Dick decides he wants to see more and performs the Voorish Sign. He sees an oppressive dome of repulsive energy bulge up below him, and in the center of that dome he sees a very tantalizing black void. He also sees a repugnant bright light in the shape of a sword emitting from Nessim’s side. The group then goes to have a look at the mindblasted cultists and see through the Voorish Sign that their hearts are a black hole, and their minds are a blank space.

The group exchanges some more information, and at one point Ahmed tells the group that the artefact they’re guarding is a girdle that has evil powers, and was reportedly in the possession of the evil queen Nitocris. The group then mentions that they have heard of the Crown of Nitocris recently. The mood then turns grave as Ahmed shares a prophecy with the group that states that the evil queen could be resurrected if all her adornments are gathered: the Crown, the Girdle and the Necklace. No one has known where the Necklace is for centuries. The group wonders if the Necklace would have been buried with the queen. They conclude their talk with their new allies and decide to head to bed.

---

### Dateline: Saturday, February 21st, 1925
The next day they wake up and set off to El Wasta, but not before discussing at length what to do with the Bust of the Black Pharaoh. In the end, they decide to call upon their favour with the Magician’s Guild. They cast the token and a Magician appears! They ask him to make a suitcase with the Bust disappear for a time, and before they can specify more the Magician waves his cloak around and the suitcase is gone. He then pulls a string of handkerchiefs out of his sleeve with an ornate brass key attached to the end. He tells the group that when they want to retrieve the suitcase, to find the door that the key opens. With that, he disappears!

The group loads up in their new car, who is dubbed Bomani, and they set off to El Wasta. Driving on the dirt roads of Egypt they soon leave civilization behind. About an hour into the journey, they discern that they’re being followed by 4 men in a car. Closer inspection reveals necklaces with ankhs on them: the Brotherhood! Shark goes into supporting driving maneuvers while the rest attempts to shoot out their tires. Lawrence pops one tire, and as the car chase picks up high speed Matthias impotently fires a flare in the air as Zasu cracks the windshield of the other car with a well-placed gunshot. This elicits a shock reaction from the driver, and the cultists’ car keels over and skids off the road. The group is safe for now.

They continue their journey to El Wasta and reach it around midday. Through a mediocre local translator they are led to a small hut at the edge of the village where they find mother Nuri. It is revealed that she no longer has any hands, only withered black stumps, and she is incapable of speech as her entire lower jaw is missing as well. The injuries are reminiscent of her son Ubaid’s missing arm. Not needing words, it seems she has seen why the group has come and she proceeds to draw a map in the sand. Shark’s keen eye for navigation instantly identifies it as a nearby oasis, and the group is instructed to dig in an area between 3 palm trees. There they will find something that Dick must put to his heart. They get some camels and set off into the desert towards the oasis. Everyone seems to be dealing OK with the heat with the exception of bohemian white people Matthias and Zasu who suffer a minor heat stroke.

Arriving at the oasis after 2 hours through the desert, they quickly spot the aforementioned palm trees and start digging. They soon uncover a stone fragment of around 20x20 centimeters. Irregular edges at one side indicate that this is a broken fragment of a larger whole. On the fragment is depicted a symbol that is an ankh flowing over into the eye of Horus. [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/Egypt Clues#[EG2] Fragment of Stone\|[EG2] Fragment of Stone]]

The occultists identify it as a protective sigil of some sorts, but it’s purpose is unknown. Lawrence notices that it’s made of the same type of limestone that is used in pyramid facings, and this fragment has a pink cast to it. The fragment is repulsive to Dick, but when placed over his heart he feels a heavy weight lift from his shoulders. The group fashions a harness with some ropes to have it permanently attached to his body. It seems Dick is, at least for now, free of the Black Pharaoh’s grasp! The group jubilates, head back to El Wasta, and find it too late to head all the way back to Cairo. They decide to stay in a nearby town and go over their future plans. It seems they’re close to Memphis, the current location of the Clive Expedition. With their fake expedition forms from the Penhew Foundation in hand, it seems like this is the place to check out next!

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 5\|Session 5]]