---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 5.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/egypt/session-5/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Sunday, February 22nd, 1925
The group stocks up on desert-gear, hops in the car and drives an hour to the ruins of Memphis to seek out the Clive Expedition. Before they trundle up to the site, Dick takes some time to disguise everyone slightly. The plan is to pretend to be another Penhew Foundation Expedition, sent here to get the lay of the land before pursuing their own goals along the Nile near Dahshur. The group is confronted with a well-guarded dig site complete with chain fence and armed guards. Lawrence manages to fast-talk their way past the gate guard, who goes off to fetch one of the expedition members. This gives the group some time to observe the dig site. They notice a large amount of Egyptian laborers, and 5 caucasians who must be the Clive Expedition principals:

- An older man in his late 50s with a bushy moustache, later identified as Dr. Henry Clive, archeologist
- A young man in his 20s with blonde hair and a pointy nose, later identified as Martin Winfield, archeologist
- A young woman in her 30s with a stern look, later identified as Joanna Specht, German archeologist
- A plump man in his 40s wearing a tweed jacket and bowtie, later identified as James Gardner, archeologist
- An old woman in her 70s wearing a sun hat and flowery dress, later identified as Agatha Broadmoor, not an archeologist but Egyptian history enthusiast

Through their observations, it becomes apparent that the Egyptian guards seem to linger and hover around James Gardner and Agatha Broadmoor more than the others, as if they’re keeping an eye on them. Dick additionally performs the Voorish Sign and notices a strong aura around Dr. Clive, identifying him as a wielder of magical powers. He also notices a strange starry nebula around Agatha Broadmoor that he can’t identify, but which can also be seen - to a lesser extent - around Zasu. The dig site itself doesn’t reveal anything to the Voorish Sign.

---

The group is approached by Martin Winfield who inquires about their identity and purpose. They present the ruse, complete with their forms from the Penhew Foundation, and after a pensive thought Martin Winfield seems to accept the story and welcomes them to the dig site. He comments on how tragic it was that Edward Gavigan and Thomas Kinnery died after a vicious wolf attack back in Walton-on-the-Naze. The party agrees. A true tragedy.

Winfield shows the group around the dig site, proudly presenting some broken pottery of little archeological value. When questioned about the seemingly unimportant work, he prattles off a story about how any archeological find, no matter how small, is of great value to the academic community. The group quickly discerns this is bull hockey.

The group goes off to talk to Agatha Broadmoor, with Martin Winfield lingering behind. Broadmoor greets the group warmly and seems to know that they are not archeologists on a new expedition. Through hushed tones she presents herself as a spirit walker: one who can talk to those beyond the veil. She points at Zasu and comments on how the group has a little spirit walker of their own. When questioned about the spirits - Martin Winfield being bodily blocked by Elliot and Dick from overhearing - she mentions they’re quiet here, but very loud at the pyramid of Mycerinus. Lawrence asks what the spirits have said, but Agatha tells him that that’s a conversation for private ears only.

The group then goes to talk to James Gardner, who is profusely sweating over pieces of pottery. After a minor introduction he goes off on a rant about how unfair this all his, that an archeologist of his renown should be degraded to the simple dusting of bric-a-brac. Matthias recalls that James Gardner is the author of several books on ancient Egypt, but none of them were received very well nor cited in other works. Gardner goes off the spout more pompous drivel about how he wishes he was back at Giza.

Upon questioned, he tells the group the story of how Dr. Clive, Martin Winfield and Jan-Willem van Heuvelen one day found the hidden tomb in the pyramid of Mycerinus. They told of ornate funeral drapings but no way to identify the identity of the mummy. There were some old scrolls in a gold coffer, but they crumbled to the touch - according to Winfield. Dr. Clive then, of his own accord, notified the Egyptian authorities immediately, to the dismay of Gardner who wished to have time to examine the mummy himself. A few days later in the middle of the night, Gardner heard a terrible scream come from the pyramid. He dressed himself and hurried to the secret tomb, and found the guards, mummy and alabaster sarcophagus missing. It’s Gardner’s theory that the mummy never left the pyramid: his primary goal in coming to Egypt was to research his theory of there being an extensive underground tunnel network beneath Giza. He believes the mummy was spirited away in one such hidden tunnel, especially as no drag marks have been found leading out of the tomb. Unfortunately the Clive Expedition packed up and left for Memphis - due to their permits being revoked by the Egyptian authorities - before he could properly test his theory. He grumbles some more as he returns to his dusting.

---

Meanwhile, the group sees Martin Winfield talking to Dr. Clive and they decide to talk to him next. They present their cover story but Dr. Clive seems wholly uninterested in talking to them. After some pushing, Clive agrees to talk to the group in private in a tent over some ‘important matters’. The group has devised a daring plan: they’re going to try and convince Clive that they’re followers of the Black Pharoah as well and an ally to Edward Gavigan, and that his death was orchestrated by the Egyptian Brotherhood in order to steal the Bust of the Black Pharaoh! This lie is carried out splendidly by Lawrence, and seemingly triggers a deep-seated worry in Clive who buys into this story and goes on to divulge many secrets to the group, whom he now believes to be allies. He calls in Martin Winfield and goes to explain the following:

Clive explains that Gavigan always had reservations about working together with the Egyptian Brotherhood, and that they shouldn’t be trusted. Now it seems the Egyptians have indeed murdered Gavigan, and who knows what other schemes they might be having! Clive and Winfield were ordered by Gavigan to work together with al-Shakti to find the hidden mummy and to whisk it away. He knows that the Egyptians used some secret tunnels in and underneath the pyramid, but they never told Clive where they were. The tunnels were used to bring the mummy to a secret ceremonial chamber where a ritual is going to take place. The Clive Expedition then moved away from Giza to Memphis to let the heat settle on the area and to keep Gardner away from accidentally discovering the tunnels and proving his theories. Clive explains how al-Shakti already had the Crown in his possession and that they found the Necklace on the mummy, but they also expected to find the Girdle in the tomb. It wasn’t there, however, which threw al-Shakti in a terrible rage. He then ordered Clive and Winfield to wait in Memphis until al-Shakti sent orders out to bring the spiritual conduit - Agatha Broadmoor - to the pyramids for the ritual.

Upon asked, Clive and Winfield believe that al-Shakti can’t perform the ritual yet because the Girdle is still missing and they haven’t been called to deliver Broadmoor yet. Dick then suggests to them that perhaps al-Shakti does have the Girdle already, and maybe he found a different spiritual conduit of his own, without telling them and bypassing them completely. Full paranoia is triggered in Clive when he considers this possibility. He theorizes that, if that’s the case, al-Shakti must be gaining some tremendous powers from the ritual that he doesn’t want to share with Clive. Through some goading of the group, Clive comes to the conclusion that the only solution is to overthrow al-Shakti and perform the ritual himself! They ponder the option of lying in wait in the ceremonial chamber until the time of the ritual comes, and then killing al-Shakti, but they dismiss this idea as al-Shakti has hundreds of followers and is reportedly a great sorcerer himself, coming from a long family of powerful sorcerers. Clive and Winfield only have some laborers under their command, and Clive himself commands some magic but nothing close to al-Shakti’s powers.

As Clive is spewing forth his theories and plans, Matthias notices that Winfield is quietly nodding along with a far-off look in his eyes. Matthias gleans that, perhaps, Winfield is thinking of a way to be the one who will be performing the ritual himself, so he gets all the credits and glory. Matthias decides to shelf this observation for now.

---

After some back-and-forth, Clive and the group come to the conclusion that the best plan for now is to thwart the ritual by stealing one or more of the required artefacts from al-Shakti. Later, they can scheme a way of gaining control of the situation and perform the ritual themselves at that point in time. Clive knows the mummy must be waiting in the ceremonial chamber by now, but the location of the artefacts he is unaware of. Two possibilities are put forward:

1. Clive and Winfield can’t be seen lurking around Giza - that would draw attention from al-Shakti - but the group could go about looking for the secret tunnels underneath the pyramids to find the ceremonial chamber. Based on what they find there, the ritual could be delayed.
2. Clive and Winfield could arrange a meeting with al-Shakti to lure him away from his plantation. The group could then raid the plantation and look to see if the artefacts are stored there. Al-Shakti’s plantation is in Gezira Mohammed, a small town north of Cairo. He has a number of laborers working there but the property itself is quite ordinary according to Clive and Winfield’s earlier visits there.

The group ponders over what the best course of action is. Clive tells them that whatever they decide to do, they’ll have to hurry. It’s sunday today, and the night from tuesday to wednesday is the night of the new moon: the perfect time for an eldritch ritual!

---

**Summary of what you’ve learned from Clive:**

- You’ve successfully convinced Clive that you’re secretly also followers of the Black Pharaoh, and that Edward Gavigan was murdered by the Egyptian Brotherhood in order to take back the Bust of the Black Pharaoh.
- Gavigan and al-Shakti (reluctantly) worked together to find and then hide away the secret mummy in the pyramid of Mycerinus. The mummy was removed through secret tunnels, the location of which Clive doesn’t know, to a hidden ceremonial chamber underneath the pyramids.
- The mummy, together with the 3 artefacts of Nitocris - Crown, Necklace and Girdle - are required for a ritual. The ritual also requires a ‘spiritual conduit’. Agatha Broadmoor appears to be this spiritual conduit. Clive believes this ritual will provide great power and glory from the Black Pharaoh, and through your suggestions believes that al-Shakti wants to keep that all to himself. Clive has decided that to prevent this, al-Shakti must be taken out and he must perform the ritual. Martin Winfield appears to have his own secret ambitions in this regard.
- al-Shakti already has the Crown and they found the Necklace on the mummy, but not the Girdle (which they did expect). Clive initially believed that al-Shakti can’t perform the ritual but you’ve made him believe that perhaps al-Shakti is scamming them and already has the Girdle and a different spiritual conduit.
- Clive doesn’t know where the artefacts are, but he believes they’re either in the ceremonial chamber or on al-Shakti’s plantation. The current plan of action is to steal one or more of the artefacts in order to prevent the ritual from being performed. After this has been accomplished, they can take further steps to take al-Shakti out for good and perform the ritual themselves.
- If al-Shakti has all the requirements for the ritual, he’ll perform it at the night of the new moon: 2 days from now!

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 6\|Session 6]]