---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 6.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/egypt/session-6/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Sunday, February 22nd, 1925
The group finalizes their scheme with Dr. Clive and Martin Winfield: the group will travel back to Cairo this day with James Gardner - to help with finding the secret tunnel network - and Agatha Broadmoor - to keep her safe from the Egyptian Brotherhood. Clive and Winfield will travel to Cairo the following day and set up a meeting with al-Shakti at 17:00, at which time the group will enter the pyramid of Mycerinus to find the hidden tunnel there. Shark fixes up Bomani and the group gets back on the road to Cairo. A heated discussion about authorship ensues.

Back in Cairo, they head back to the Shepheard’s Hotel and finally take off their disguises. Broadmoor seems unsurprised and Gardner is more concerned with his own ego to really notice. The receptionist informs the group that there’s good news and bad news: the bad news is that their rooms were ransacked last night by some cloaked figures. The good news is that there’s a telegram from New York. After inspecting their rooms, the group finds that nothing is missing - although some clothes are torn up. They praise themselves wise for bringing all eldritch artefacts and items of occult significance along in the car. The telegram is from Carlton Ramsey and informs the group that Hilton Adams has been released from death row awaiting his retrial for the Forehead-Carving Murders, and Silas N’kwane - the proprietor of the Ju-Ju House - was found dead in his cell. The official record states it’s a suicide, but there are some doubts. Finally the telegram mentions that Erica Carlyle sends her regards and reminds the group that her offer of using her extensive global networks to aid the group still stands.

The group decides to move hotel and decides to go to the most classy hotel in Cairo: the Semiramis. The group talks with Agatha Broadmoor about her intended role as a spiritual conduit in the resurrection of Nitocris. She admits she’s aware of this, and that’s also why she offered herself to be taken along on the expedition. As her part in the ritual requires her to guide Nitocris’ soul back into her body, she intends to instead fling the evil queen’s soul into the Void. When considering the Void, Shark remembers a book reading he once attended about the different realms of existence: there’s the Material Realm, in which all known things reside, and the Spiritual Realm, where all spirits reside. There’s also a Divine Realm which is kind of like a members-only club for powerful entities, and the Eldritch Realm which is superimposed over the Material Realm, in which all things that are ‘wrong’ end up. The spaces in between all these realms is called the Void, and anything cast in the Void is said to be lost to time and space forever.

They settle in, but before the day is over Dick and Shark head to the Mosque of Ibn Tulun to warn the ulama about the Brotherhood’s grand scheme of resurrecting Queen Nitocris. Ahmed al-Dhahabi receives them in his office and hears their tale. He takes the warning seriously and promises to take any precaution they can to safeguard the Girdle. He also informs them that destroying the Girdle - or the body of Nitocris herself - might be harder than one could imagine. Things so steeped in evil can be quite resilient. To aid in their quest, he gives the group an old scroll that contains an incantation which can enchant a blade with some of Allah’s powers. When questioned if it must be a bladed object, al-Dhahabi admits that the scroll was written in a time where most weapons were blades, and perhaps the powers could be transferred to any modern weapon as well. Dick and Shark head back to the hotel. They look at the scroll but discover it’s all in Arabic. They wonder if maybe Dr. Kafour could help them out here. Considering the late hour, everyone goes to sleep.

---

### Dateline: Monday, February 23rd, 1925
A distand, thunderous rumble awakens the group from their sleep in the middle of the night. There is no sign of a storm in the sky, but the low rumbling seems to be coming from the direction of the Mosque of Ibn Tulun. They drive down to see what the commotion is all about, and as they get closer they see a cloud of dust hang in the air. Peering into the night sky, they can discern a [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/Egypt Images#Hunting Horror\|gargantuan serpentine creature]] swimming through the air - darker than the night sky around it. Lawrence performs the Voorish Sign and sees the creature in all clarity. He also notices that the energy signatures of the Sword of Akmallah and the Girdle of Nitocris are not present.

The group gets a bit closer to the Mosque and join some onlookers. An outer wall of the Mosque is reduced to rubble, as well as some other buildings on the compound - including the building below which the ulama guard the Girdle. Dick sneaks up to the Mosque, narrowly evading detection, and sees many cloaked figures searching through the rubble - seeming to be looking for something or someone. Standing out is a corpulent man wearing a white suit, who seems to be overseeing the whole operation. Dick suspects this might be Omar al-Shakti. He casts the Voorish Sign and perceives the man as very strongly present in different layers of reality - as if he is a very powerful figure who presses the stamp of his existence on many levels. As Dick ponders this, the man suddenly turns around and looks in Dick’s direction. As he directs a few cloaked figures to investigate, Dick sneaks back to the group. They decide there’s nothing more to be done here and head back to the hotel.

The next morning the group evaluates the events from the night before. Their eye falls on an edition of the Cairo Bulletin: [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/Egypt Clues#[EG3] Tragedy at the Mosque\|[EG3] Tragedy at the Mosque]]

Where is the Girdle? Where is the Sword? Where is Nessim Efti? Did they heed the group’s warnings? Is he a traitor? What will the investigators do now???

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/Egypt/Session 7\|Session 7]]