---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 6.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/england/session-6/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Wednesday, February 4th, 1925
The group converses a bit more with Gary Umberton and find out he’s been captured for a week and a half, but has not been tortured. Realizing he’s still chained to the wall, the group sets out to free him. On one of the captured thugs they find the appropriate key. Meanwhile, Dick is bored of Gary’s story and takes a closer look at the bust of the Black Pharaoh that’s present in the basement, thinking it must be the bust that *Omar al-Shakti* is referring to in his letter. He stares at the bust for a while, and just like with the painting, the darkness of the pharaoh seems to pull Dick in. Suddenly Dick sees the bust tremble and slither, and around the place where the mouth is tendrils and tentacles start to appear and writhe. After a blink of an eye, the vision is gone. Matthias recollects his knowledge on the Black Pharaoh and recalls that the Black Pharaoh is an avatar of one of the outer gods: *Nyarlathotep*. Based on the descriptions Dick gave of the experiences he has had with depicitions of the Black Pharaoh, destroying the bust could either be desastrous or wonderful. The group debates dumping the bust in the ocean, but for now decide to just take it along with them.

Afterwards, the investigators raid the desk in the basement and find two interesting items. First, they find a ledger where someone is meticulously keeping track of all manner of strange shipments ([[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/England Clues#[EN4] Ledger Entries\|[EN4] Ledger Entries]]). Two names stand out to the investigators: they recognize the name Huston from one of the Carlyle Expedition’s members: psychiatrist *Robert Huston*. If this is indeed referring to Robert Huston, then Jackson Elias was right that not all the Expedition members died in a massacre in Kenya. They also recognize the name *Ahja Singh*: he was mentioned as an exporter from Kenya who made deliveries to the *Ju-Ju House* through Emerson Imports. Second in the desk, the group finds an unfinished letter addressed to the *Pale Viper* ([[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/England Clues#[EN5] Letter to Pale Viper\|[EN5] Letter to Pale Viper]]). Seeing as it mentions Elias’ death, it must’ve been written in the past 3 weeks. It also mentions *Jack Brady*: another Carlyle Expedition member - *Roger Carlyle*’s bodyguard and confidante - who Jackson reported having been seen alive in Hong Kong a year earlier.

Next, the group checks out the bookcase in the basement. They find many volumes in all manner of languages: English, French, German, Spanish, Arabic, Hebrew, Aramaic and others. They fail to discern which volumes might be of special interest to them, but Zasu has a plan! Drawing from her experience with Madam Elvira, she calls upon the spirits to aid her in this endeavour. Unfortunately Zasu isn’t that trained in the occult, and though she does manage to call upon the spirits, they are malevolent spirits! They course through her body, she shakes and trembles and convulses and her eyes start to bleed blood. A mere seconds after, the spirits leave her again. Matthias suggests maybe leaving spirit-calling to the professionals. The group decides to take all the books and later on consult Matthias’ boat friend Jimothy on help with translating.

Lawrence gets all giddy as the investigators finally get to interrogating the captured thugs! Lawrence takes some mug shots and after some good cop-bad cop from Shark and Matthias, one of the thugs confesses he’s part of the Brotherhood, but only for the money and prestige! He explains that they have monthly parties at the full moon, where everyone pre-drinks at the mansion and then heads into the woods to a stone pillar. There they dance and sing and carve their own arms open in praise of the Black Pharaoh. The thug admits he has never seen the Black Pharaoh himself, but he has heard that others have, and that one of them gouged his own eyes out and another slit his own throat. Reluctantly he admits that yes, human sacrifice does happen at the rituals as well. Finally, he reveals that the rituals are attended by around 50-60 cultists. Most arrive on the evening itself and leave in the early hours of the morning, but Gavigan always comes a day before and stays until a day after, usually with *Zahra Shafik*.

The group now questions the Egyptian groundkeeper. In broken English he explains that he’s not a cultist but a slave. Years ago he crossed *Omar al-Shakti* in Egypt, who then proceeded to murder his entire family and carve a large inverted ankh in the man’s back. This ankh allows him to be controlled by the Brotherhood, and he is incapable of escape or anything that goes against their wishes. He reveals that the Asian maid has a similar mark, but the thugs don’t. Omar al-Shakti gifted the man to Edward Gavigan as a sign of good faith many years ago. Unsure about whether Gavigan is able to magically see through the man’s eyes, they blindfold him again and put him back in lock-up.

The group decides that someone needs to call Barrington over to see all the evidence of Gavigan’s heinous crimes, and Dick and Zasu decide to take the Bentley to drive back to Walton-on-the-Naze. The car journey of 30 minutes is spent with Dick monologuing and Zasu attending the after-effects of her spiritual journey. Dick calls Barrington and reveals they have found the warrant card of Inspector Munden in a mansion owned by Edward Gavigan. Barrington is shocked and states he’ll be on his way shortly. Dick convinces him to arrest Gavigan first to prevent him from escaping, and Barrington says he’ll send a constable over. Dick and Zasu leave the Bentley and retrieve Maggie to drive back to the Misr House to wait for Barrington, knowing that the journey from London can take up to 4 hours.

Meanwhile back at the mansion, the group discusses what to do with the scepters, oil painting and bust of the Black Pharaoh. They don’t want to leave it for the police to take, but are also not sure about destroying it. In the end they settle on destroying the painting and taking the scepters and bust in their car, along with a number of books and scrolls from the basement. They hope the police won’t find out that they’re taking items from a crime scene.

Dick and Zasu return and as the group makes further plans, Matthias suddenly gets the chills as he starts to hear the same fainted whispering that he heard earlier that day. Again, shadowy figures begin to move on the edge of his vision. He immediately starts accusing the other investigators of being involved, growing more agitated as the suffocating feeling on his chest comes up as well. Suddenly it changes, and it feels like something in his chest wants to get in, or out. A gasp of surprise and pain! Deep bloody gashes suddenly appear on Matthias’ chest and back, staining his shirt with red blood. The whispers and shadows disappear instantly. The group struggles to bandage the wounds, and Matthias ends up having to do it himself. Matthias describes his experiences to Zasu, who uses her occult knowledge to determine it sounds like a form of scrying - magical spying by witches or warlocks. The group deduces that it might be Gavigan responsible, and if that’s the case he knows where they are. The group panics and quickly decide on a code phrase to determine if anyone’s been possessed: *Incan Pyramids Rule, Egyptian Pyramids Drool*.

The group discusses what to do: flee or barricade themselves in the Misr House? They decide they definitely don’t want any cultists coming here before the police to either destroy evidence or lay a trap for the police, so they settle on barricading themselves in the Misr House. While Shark gets started on that, with a very disappointed Gary Umberton who had hoped to be brought back home by now, the rest goes out into the woods next to the Misr House to visit the stone pillar the thug mentioned. A 30 minute tramp through the dark marshes brings them to a small clearing with a 2,5m high obelisk. Many hieroglyphs are carved into the stone and Matthias starts of copying them on paper. Lawrence flexes and takes photographs instead. The group inspects the obelisk and they find blood-stained manacles on each of the four sides of the obelisk. Further inspection reveals that actually the entire ground around the obelisk seems to have been soaked in blood over a long period of time, creating rusty brown discolorations. Zasu has a hunch and starts digging with her hands in a specific area of dirt that seems less compacted than others. Soon after, she encounters a human skull.

Satisfied with their findings, the group heads back to the Misr House and finished barricading the entire ground floor. They lock their prisoners in the torture dungeon, grab their shotguns and rifles and hole up on the second floor themselves. Then they wait.

Around 22:00, approximately 4,5 hours after the phone call to Barrington, they see headlights approaching the house. A single car stops in front of the Misr House.

A door opens…

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 7\|Session 7]]