---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 2.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/england/session-2/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Monday, February 2nd, 1925
After leaving the Penhew Foundation, Dick mouths to Shark - who did not enter with the group - to check for a tail. Sure enough, shortly after the group walks away, Shark notices a guard putting on a coat and following after them. Shark tails the tail. Dick has also spotted said tail, and the group decides to implant false information. Instead of going to the Savoy Hotel, they walk to the theater district and towards a shabby hotel by the name of The Royal Chester. They enter the hotel, and Dick slaps an extraordinary amount of money on the counter to get a room with three bunk beds. There the investigators wait to see whether their tail follows them in.

Shark, tailing the tail, notices that the tail passes by the Royal Chester a few times looking in, after which the tail takes position across the street from the hotel and starts smoking a cigarette. Shark pretends to be a drunkard who needs help picking up his keys, but finds the tail unhelpful. Shark stumbles into the Royal Chester’s lobby to keep an eye on the guy, and requisites the receptionist’s bat.

After a while, the group decides to make a sneaky exit through the backdoor and make the tail believe they’re still in the hotel. Shark stays behind to observe. Sure enough, the tail at one point enters the hotel and sends the receptionist to the back with a phony request for mail, after which he leaves through the guest book - which the group has signed in with a fake name. Shark surmises that the tail has no idea of actually knowing when the group would have checked into the hotel, and that his checking of the ledger hasn’t given him any good info. The tail then leaves again to take his position across the street.

While the rest of the group made their way back to the Savoy Hotel, Shark at one point decides to step it up a notch. He walks out, asks for a light from the tail and then tries to make suggestive conversation. The tail seems confused at the situation. Then Shark makes an implication that he is part of a third party who has interest in the investigators, and that the tail and his employers better back off if they know what’s good for them. He enforces his statement by putting out a cigarette on his own neck. This sufficiently confuses and freaks the tail out, who decides to leave. Shark follows him briefly, but after he gets spotted the tail decides to run off. Shark decides to head back to the Savoy, and realises he still has the matchbook the tail gave to him earlier. The matchbook is from a place called the *Blue Pyramid Club*.

---

Back at the Savoy, the group decides to check the Blue Pyramid Club out and asks a waiter if he’s heard of the place. They are extremely lucky as the waiter - Ben Barrows - tells them that his brother - Ken Barrows - works at the Blue Pyramid Club. He gives the investigators a letter of recommendation. Elliot elects to stay at the Savoy to make cocktails.

Before heading to the Blue Pyramid Club, Dick and Zasu disguise Shark with a fake nose, tweed suit and a flawless British accent. They give him the pseudonym Kipper.

The group heads to Soho and finds the Blue Pyramid Club located on the 1st floor of a building. The doorman turns out to be Ken Barrows and the group quickly gains access to the Club. They learn that the Club is owned by a man named Abdul Nawisha. Inside they find a high end club with lavish Egyptian style decor. Colourful rugs adorn the floors of the hallway, coffee bar and drawing room, and the ballroom at the end of the hall has a floor of polished marble with exotic plants and large mirrors along the walls. On the stage a man is playing the oud, and several belly dancers show their craft. There are 50 to 60 people present in the club, mostly Egyptians but a few bohemian looking Englishmen are present as well. Dick identifies one of the Englishmen as an employee of the Penhew Foundation that he spotted while he was snooping around.

---

At the Club, Matthias and Zasu have several spirited conversations with some members about the merits of Egyptian pyramids versus South-American pyramids. They get the feeling most of the older gentlemen who visit the Club are educated and proper fellows. They also briefly touch upon the Egyptian Murders and they learn that inspector Barrington was at the Club a couple of months ago to ask questions.

While the evening progresses, the belly dancers leave their stage and mingle in the crowds. The group observes that several club members get a bit handsy with them. Some people get thrown out by the bouncers, yet others who portray similar indiscretions don’t. It’s noticed that the Englishmen are not removed by the bouncers. Lawrence strikes up a conversation with a heavy-set Egyptian man, later identified as Abdul Nawisha, who seems to be directing the bouncers to ask what’s up. Mr. Nawisha denies anything out of the ordinary, but Lawrence notices the man is visibly frightened by the line of questioning and is furtively looking around. Lawrence tries to pry further, asking directly why the Englishmen are not being removed, at which point Abdul Nawisha excuses himself and leaves the ballroom through a stage exit. Shark tries to follow him, but unfortunately gets stopped and turned around by some bouncers in the back room. As the evening progresses on, one of the belly dancers grazes Lawrence and whispers in his ear to meet her outside at the arches at midnight, after which she dances off again. Lawrence observes her a determines that she avoids the Englishmen, and seems to shoot disdainful looks at them.

Meanwhile, Dick decided to follow the employee of the Penhew Foundation into the bathroom and strike up conversation. Dick mentions seeing the man at the Foundation earlier today, and gives the same fake story about an expedition as they did to Thomas Kinnery earlier that day. Dick gives the fake name of Brett Baker. Conversation is struck up, and Dick joins the man and his group to find out more about these guys and why they get special treatment. After observing the group and the conversation for a while, Dick doesn’t know why Abdul Nawisha seems to be afraid of them. He does discern that these guys don’t seem very much like insane cultists, but rather seem to enjoy coasting along on the reputation of the Penhew Foundation. When prying in more about the Foundation’s activities, he learns that Edward Gavigan has an interest in the 3rd Dynasty of Ancient Egypt, and that the Foundation has had many expeditions out in *Dahshur*, fueled by interesting ancient pottery and items originally excavated by the Carlyle Expedition. This inspired future digs in the area.

The final observation of the evening in the Blue Pyramid Club is of a beautiful Egyptian woman sitting at the bar. Slender, long black hair, piercing green eyes and dressed in elegant black, she is attended by different groups of men over the course of the evening, almost as if she’s having court. There are 3 men who sit near her the entire evening though, giving the impression of being bodyguards of some sort. Through conversation with other club members, the group learns that this is *Ms. Shafik*, who owns a spice shop by the name of *Empire Spices* near the club.

As midnight approaches, Zasu uses her charms on one of the more weak looking Englishmen - *Simon McGrinny* - and extricates his phone number for potential use later on. The group then heads out to meet the mysterious belly dancer at the arches…

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 3\|Session 3]]