---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 7.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/england/session-7/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Wednesday, February 4th, 1925
Dick is situated in the attic with his rifle while the rest of the gang is gathered in the master bedroom on the first floor. Matthias has cleverly hoisted himself in a suit of full plate armour. A car pulls up at the Misr House. The driver’s door opens, and out comes *Thomas Kinnery*. A few seconds after, two thugs get out from the back seat, and Kinnery walks over to the passenger side door to let out Edward Gavigan. The group of men walk up to the Misr House, after which Dick fires off a warning shot. Gavigan gets enraged and demands to know who they are, and if this is al-Shakti’s master plan. Gavigan orders his followers to assault the Misr House, and Dick responds firmly by planting a rifle bullet in Gavigan’s chest. A killing shot for sure, but to everyone’s surprise Gavigan is merely staggered and bleeding, but still standing. Gavigan retaliates by sending forth arcs of lightning from his hand that strike Dick. Then, a gun fight erupts.

Bullets are traded between Dick, Shark, Lawrence and Matthias on one side, and Gavigan’s thugs on the other side. Thomas Kinnery rushes up to the front door brandishing a spiked club and starts to tear down the barricades. Gavigan yells that he’ll demonstrate the true power of the Black Pharaoh and runs into the woods. Dick plants another bullet in Gavigan’s arm, but he is still not stopped. Zasu gathers from the direction Gavigan is running towards that he’s probably headed to the obelisk in the woods, and most likely for a nefarious magical ritual. She and Shark decide to go after Gavigan. Shark climbs down a drain pipe while the rest provides cover fire, and Zasu nimbly swoons into his arms from the upper floor. They make a run for the woods.

Meanwhile Lawrence adds to his kill list by taking out the two thugs with his handgun, and then heads out the window to follow Zasu and Shark into the woods. Full Metal Matthias decides to shuffle to the top of the stairs to intercept Thomas Kinnery who is almost making it through the front door. Dick joins him. Matthias carefully descends down the stairs, shield first, but finds that it’s actually quite easy. He makes his way down as Thomas breaks through the front door and the two fence off, yelling their moves as they make them. Matthias deftly carves the beginning stroke of an ‘M’ in Kinnery’s cheek, but then Dick runs over and blasts Thomas in the face with his gun. With the threats at the house taken care off, Dick hurries after the rest into the woods while Matthias, armoured as he is, holds down the fort at the Misr House in case the police shows up. They set up a set of signals.

---

In the woods, Zasu and Shark come up to the clearing with the obelisk. They see a disrobed Gavigan standing in front of the obelisk, hands raised in the sky. A chanting reaches their ears on a cold draft and Zasu determines that whatever Gavigan’s ritual is for, it is almost complete. She decides to create a diversion for Shark and comes out of the woods muttering incantations of her own. Unfortunately she mixes up Latin and Aramaic and Gavigan is more surprised than perturbed. Zasu is shocked to see a wild growth of fleshy mass on Gavigan’s torso, the bulk of which has prevented Dick’s rifle shot from killing him outright. Gavigan comments on Zasu coming to witness the angel of the Black Pharaoh, right as Shark comes striding out of the woods with his gun raised. Gavigan notices Shark right at the end, but it’s too late. Shark plows a bullet through Gavigan’s jaw, and Gavigan succumbs to his injuries. His last words are unknown, as he no longer has a jaw.

By this time Lawrence and Dick have made it to the clearing as well, but before they can rejoice in their victory an icy wind blows in the skies, and they hear a terrifying screech from the heavens. A flying shadow passes in front of the moon, and a terrifying creature alights on a tree near the clearing. Dick recognises the creature from one of the occult tomes he’s read as a [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/England Images#Byakhee\|Byakhee]] - an interstellar beast that serves the Outer Gods and that can function as a steed for space travel, if you know how to survive in the cold vacuum. Shark quickly fires off several shots, blasting away parts of the Byakhee’s skull. The creature shrieks in anger and dives at Shark. It grabs on to him, sinks its teeth in his shoulder and starts sucking Shark’s blood. Dick howls in anger as he runs up to the Byakhee with his shotgun and blasts one of its wings away. As pints of dark blood pulsate out of the massive wound, it lets go of Shark, thrashes and shrieks, until it finally bleeds out on the forest floor. Dick botches an attempt to bandage Shark’s shoulder, but Lawrence sets it right. Shark feels weak, as a large amount of blood has been drained. Hopefully his strength will return in time. They search Gavigan’s body and find a telegram from Cairo ([[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/England Clues#[EN2] Telegram from Dr. Clive\|[EN2] Telegram from Dr. Clive]]).

Meanwhile at the Misr House, Matthias has searched the cultists but didn’t find anything interesting. Then a police car comes driving up and out comes inspector Barrington. He is shocked by the sight of several dead bodies in front of the Misr House and an armoured man greeting him, but Matthias calmly explains what’s going on and takes Barrington on a tour of the Misr House, pointing out all the torture devices and enslaved foreigners - who are now weeping with joy as the slaver’s magic is fading from their bodies. Barrington takes stock of everything. By the time the rest of the group gets back to the Misr House, back-up from the Essex Police has arrived and they lead them to the clearing. Barrington is at a loss for words when he sees the Byakhee. The group points out the buried skeletons in the ground, and Barrington realises he’ll be here for a while. The group leaves their address with Barrington if they’re needed for further questioning, and the group leaves the Misr House.

They discuss their plans: it seems Gavigan was the one who gave the orders to *Mukunga M’Dari* to kill Jackson Elias, but apparently he was under orders from *Pale Viper*. Pale Viper seems to be in *Shanghai*, as well as *Jack Brady* - one of the Carlyle Expedition members. It seems Pale Viper and Jack Brady are at odds with each other. Then there is the indication that *Robert Huston* - also of the Carlyle Expedition - might be in *Australia*, and there’s the issue with the Egyptian Brotherhood led by *Omar al-Shakti* in Egypt. After wrapping things up in England, they decide to head to Cairo first to check things out there, with their next destination being Shanghai and finding Jack Brady.

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 8\|Session 8]]