---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/New York/Session 6.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/new-york/session-6/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Wednesday, January 21st, 1925
The group starts their day fresh and pay a visit to Margaret Hillsbrow, widow of Samuel Discrol who was the first Forehead-Carving Murder Victim. They question her about her late husband and learn that he was acting erratically strange in the last 6 months of his life. There were money issues and his business was going poorly, although the details of it elude Margaret, but suddenly Samuel’s mood was lifted and he proclaimed their problems would be soon over. He then would start to disappear for various amounts of time, but once a month he would always be gone for the entire night, coming back with his clothes disheveled and a maddened look in his eyes. She doesn’t know where he went, but he did mention hanging out in Harlem after one of those nights. Once he returned from home after a night of being gone and spoke some gibberish about a mask and ‘having seen the faces of the gods’ and that they are ‘beautiful and horrible’. A few days after, he was murdered.

The group presses on Margaret that the police might not have been conducting a full investigation, and that there might be more to the story. They convince her to let them look through Samuel’s ledgers, accounts and personal items. Through a keen accounting eye, Elliot discerns that in the last 6 months before his death, Samuel arranged cash transactions from a bank account tied to the Ju-Ju House to a recipient who was indicated as ‘*WR14*’. The group deduces that this might be code for ‘Walter Robson of the 14th Precinct’. They surmise that even though this is hardly a smoking gun, it can be used as a substantial supporting piece of evidence for police corruption. Dick meanwhile manages to find a hidden drawer in one of Samuel’s desks, and finds a stack of papers all with the same [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/New York Images#Ju-Ju Mask\|drawing]] on it of some sort of mask with 4 stylised faces on top. The faces are of an old man with a beard, a glob of eyeballs smashed together, a writhing sea of tendrils, and a misshapen goat’s head. The group does not recognise any of these things.

The group is allowed to take the found evidence back home with them, and say goodbye to Margaret. Margaret finally mentions that Samuel used to own a pocket watch which had been passed down for generations in his family. He always wore it, but after his murder it was not recovered and she has no idea where it is now.

Back at the hotel, Matthias strips down for his first attempt at magic. He invokes the [[TTRPG/Games/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Spells/Chant of Thoth\|TTRPG/Games/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Spells/Chant of Thoth]] while looking at the drawings taken from Margaret’s house. His mind’s eye opens up to the mysteries and secrets of the cosmos, and terrible knowledge floods his brain, chipping away at his sanity. With this flood, however, comes recognition of the 4 faces on the drawn mask.

- The old bearded man is recognised at *Nodens*, who is known as the Lord of the Great Abyss and Father of Nightgaunts;
- The glob of eyes is recognised as *Yog-Sothoth*, who is known as The Key and The Gate’, and the Opener of the Way. He is known to see all of space-time and knows the secret to the universe’s terrible end;
- The mass of tendrils is recognised as *Azathoth*, who is known as the Demon Sultan and the Sleeping Chaos. A mindless entity who babbles profane blasphemies in his court surrounded by mad pipers and dancers, and who will one day consume all;
- The misshaped goat is recognised as *Shub-Nigurath*, who is known as The Black Goat of The Woods with a Thousand Young and The All-Mother. This entity brings with it rot, decay and destruction, and its young spread across the land bringing disease and misery.

After his mind’s eye closes, a sweaty and exhausted Matthias collapses in Elliot’s arms. After he comes to, he summons his nurse who gives him a stern talking to, seeing as how his stitches have torn and somehow pus is leaking out of his wound.

After a short rest, Lawrence, Matthias and Zasu make their way to Samuel Huston, dermatologist and brother of Robert Huston, one of the Carlyle Expedition members. They question Samuel about his brother and learn the following information:

- Robert was always in search of attention and the fringes of society, joining and leaving several cults and sects in his youth
- After graduating with honors from Johns Hopkins University, he went to have a medical practice for a few years before moving to Austria to study under Freud and Jung. Samuel regards these men as immoral, who teach obscene theories and practices all relating to sex and penises
- Returning to New York, Robert proceeded to apply these filthy teachings in a psychoanalysis practice, and became wildly popular with New York’s upper class, who were intrigued and fascinated by this charming man with his spicy methods
- At one point, Robert was treating Roger Carlyle as his patient. When Carlyle went on his expedition, Robert claimed he would come along to continue his treatment. Samuel suspects, however, that he came along to draw away attention from the suicide of his ex-lover, Imelda Bosch, and surmises that Carlyle probably helped him to cover up the scandal
- As for Carlyle's attraction to Robert, Samuel can only guess. Carlyle was known to have problems with alcohol in his youth, and he lost his parents at a young age, so perhaps Roger saw Robert as a parental figure?
- Samuel doesn’t know what inspired Carlyle’s expedition, but perhaps Robert’s files say something about the matter. It seems that Robert’s tendency for controversy did not keep to his life, as the Medical Affairs Board seized Robert’s files upon being declared dead for review, which is quite unheard of

After some charming comments by Zasu about Samuel’s complexion, he agrees to request Robert’s files from the Medical Affairs Board and will have them ready by friday. He also bestows Zasu with a dubious tincture for flawless skin.

Meanwhile, Elliot and Dick pay a visit to Millie Adams, wife of Hilton Adams. At the Lafayette Theater they sit down for a talk. They explain that they went to visit Hilton, are convinced of his innocence, and have arranged both funds and a lawyer for a new appeal. Millie is visibly relieved and happy to hear this, and she divulges all she knows. Most of her story is along the same lines as Hilton’s story, but hers doesn’t end with his incarceration. After his arrest, Millie took it upon herself to spy on the Ju-Ju House herself. She discovered that every month at the new moon, around 23:00 a stream of 20-30 people would enter the Ju-Ju House over the course of an hour. These seem to be people from different walks of life, from tramps to blue collar workers, but they definitely seem to know each other. She also knows that the Ju-Ju House is a small building, so there must be a hidden basement of some sorts. These people stay in the Ju-Ju House all night, and leave in the early hours of the morning looking dazed, confused and disheveled. She also noticed that usually an hour before people would arrive on these days, two heavy crates were hauled inside the Ju-Ju House. She doesn’t know what’s in them. Finally, she has observed police officers in plainclothes enter the Ju-Ju House on a weekly basis on fridays. She suspects that they pick up bribes. One officer that she recognised was *Irwin Stanton*, of the 14th Precinct. Elation and Dick amicably say farewell to Millie, and promise to do what they can to free Hilton.

The group reconvenes over lunch, and decide that they feel like they have all the information that they can. There is just one thing left to do: raid the Ju-Ju House. They discuss possible tactics, knowing that there probably is another event at the Ju-Ju House at the new moon the coming weekend, where most likely some innocent people will die. Seeing as the police might be under the Ju-Ju House’s control, they feel it’s pertinent to ensure enough evidence of corruption before attempting their raid, to use if they find themselves arrested by corrupt cops. They have an appointment with Commissioner Johnson this evening, and will use this to make him amenable to accepting evidence they might present on corruption. Then they will try to take photographic evidence of bribes being taken on friday, secure the negatives, and then attempt their raid.

In preparing to meet Commissioner Johnson, Dick goes off on a rant about how he can’t be trusted, about how he’s a backstabber who will do anything for his own gain. The group manages to pry that there’s some sort of personal history between the two, and a previous work relation, but Dick refuses to divulge more and leaves in a huff.

Lawrence meets up with Commissioner Johnson, who explains that he had a talk with Captain Robson about the dangers of corruption and that it can’t be allowed in New York’s Finest. Robson seemed to agree and promised to keep an eye out for any wrong-doings in his force, but Johnson did get the impression that Robson was somewhat intimidated by the time he left. Lawrence then goes on to allude to possible evidence of police corruption, and how the commissioner should take any and all evidence seriously so any taint in the Blues can be scrubbed away before, say, it gets leaked to the press. Johnson and Lawrence come to a tense understanding that any such evidence Lawrence might have will go to Johnson, who will investigate it with utmost importance, so the headlines would rather read ‘Commissioner Johnson Weeds Out Bad Apples’ than ‘Corruption Stains the NYPD’.

---

### Dateline: Thursday, January 22nd, 1925
In the morning, Matthias removes his bandages and luckily his Major Wound seems to have healed well! His cane is once again only for show!

Dick spends the day in the abandoned pawn shop next to the Ju-Ju House spying. He notices a tall African man reminiscent of *Mukunga* entering the shop around 11:30. He overhears conversations with an old high-pitched voice, probably *Silas N’Kwane*, inside in an African language. A few English words are heard:

- White Jackal (...) London (...) Grey Dragon
- Walter Robson scared man
- Hotel Chelsia (...) Jackson Elias

Then he hears a squeak and a thud, probably belonging to a trapdoor being opened somewhere in the shop. Around 12:00 the two men are heard again and soon after leave the shop together, talking about ‘Fat Maybelle’ and ‘Cajun chicken’. Silas N’Kwane returns at 13:00. Nothing of note happens afterwards, except that Silas leaves the shop between 17:00 and 19:00, presumably to get dinner.

In the evening the group is set to attend the Fitz-Carlton Hotel’s Charity Auction. Dick finds it important to disguise himself and Elliot, since they are unlikely to be expected to attend such an event. Dick works miracles on Elliot, making him seem years younger. His disguise for himself turns out to be a golden suit. Additionally, Zasu’s invitations don’t stretch over all of the investigators, and Elliot decides to apply for a cocktail waiter position for the event. He tries a daring new cocktail with ginger and several whiskies, but it produces a terrible drink. Elliot is offered a regular waiting job, but keeps the honour to himself and storms off.

Matthias, Zasu, Lawrence and Dick attend the charity auction and quickly spot *Erica Carlyle*, escorted by her bodyguard: big and buff *Joe Corey*. They also spot Commissioner Johnson and his wife, and Dick makes it a point to avoid them seeing him. The group quickly checks Erica’s interests in the auction’s items - ancient Egyptian artefacts - and they start to talk loudly in her vicinity on the topic, much to Matthias’ chagrin. They manage to strike up a pleasant conversation with Erica on the topic of ancient Egypt and things seem to be progressing well, although Lawrence is forbidden by Joe Corey to take a picture of Zasu and Erica. Then Zasu decides to take the plunge and starts mentioning expeditions, and how it was so strange what happened to Roger Carlyle’s expedition. Erica’s mood sours and she snaps that she doesn’t appreciate being tricked into talking about her brother at social events. Matthias discerns that although Erica is put off, she doesn’t seem completely unwilling to talk about her brother. He tries to smooth her over by presenting arguments as to why they should meet later to talk about it - still avoiding mentioning that the members of the expedition might still be alive - but that goes down the wrong hole with Erica and she angrily stomps off with Joe Corey right behind. Then Dick steps in with a hail Mary and proclaims to Erica that *Jack Brady* was seen alive. Erica stops in her tracks. Exchanges a glance with Joe Corey and whispers something in his ear. Joe then walks right up to Dick and extends an appointment on saturday at noon at the Carlyle Mansion to talk further with Erica. Due to his failed interactions earlier, Matthias is not invited.

Back in his dark room, Elliot stares at himself in the mirror. He calls himself a joke and a fraud, and wipes Dick’s disguise off in anger. He walks to the bar and chaotically throws together all sorts of spirits and ingredients. He takes a sip and… he has created the perfect cocktail. Elliot’s faith in his abilities is restored, and in the future he can be sure to get some extra sway with someone by offering them this concoction.

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/New York/Session 7\|Session 7]]