---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/New York/Session 7.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/new-york/session-7/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Friday, January 23rd, 1925
In the morning, Matthias, Zasu and Elliot drop by Samuel Huston’s office to pick up the medical records of his brother. Unfortunately, most files seem to have been destroyed, but a few choice pages have been salvaged for the investigators ([[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM16] Huston's Notes on Roger Carlyle\|[AM16] Huston's Notes on Roger Carlyle]]). The three muse on the contents of the pages, and Matthias feels like the ‘misshapen pyramid’ might refer to the *Bent Pyramid in Dahshur, Egypt*. Additionally, they recognise the *inverted ankh* from research done earlier in the Harvard University Library, when they learned about a cult called The Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh. He also determines that Robert Huston was under the impression that Carlyle suffered megalomaniacal delusions, thinking that he might be or become a god. Huston feared for his reputation by joining Carlyle on this expedition, as it would seem like he had doubts on his own analysis. Apparently, the threat of exposure of his deceased lover swayed him to join in the end.

Meanwhile, Dick, Shark and Lawrence have holed up in the abandoned pawn shop to get photographic evidence of police corruption. They are successful: a beat cop in plainsclothes shows up to the Ju-Ju House and shortly after leaves tucking a well-stuffed envelope in his pocket. Lawrence gets good detailed pictures of this event.

The group reconvenes, and plans out the rest of the day: Lawrence will develop the pictures, and he will compile all the evidence to be sent to Rebecca Shosenberg, to be released to the police in the event that the investigators don’t contact her the next day. Matthias strips down and performs his Chant of Thoth once again. They then wait until Silas N’Kwane leaves the shop for dinner, after which Shark’s buddy Slick Mick will unlock the Ju-Ju House for them to investigate.

In the meantime, when Huston’s records are shared with the group, Dick recalls that he has heard Silas and Mukunga mention a ‘M’Weru’ a few times while snooping the day before.

The group enters the Ju-Ju House after Silas leaves, and fall over each other to find any hidden trapdoors. They quickly find one under a rug behind the counter. They also search Silas’ living quarters and discover a panga wrapped in a leopard skin, similar to those Jackson’s killers had, as well as a somewhat similar headband. The main difference being that Jackson’s killers had a long strip of red cloth attached to the front, but Silas’ headband has a mummified human tongue attached. Yuck!

The group opens the trapdoor and Shark goes down a long and narrow set of stairs bravely. Zasu takes up a watch on the ground floor in case Silas comes back early. The stairs go down to a small corridor with tribal signs carved in the walls that Matthias discerns as being *Kikuyu* tribal signs signifying evil. The corridor ends in a thick wooden door that is unfortunately locked. Since they didn’t find a key in the shop, Elliot proceeds to expertly remove the hinges of the door. The door is removed, and it reveals a small square chamber beyond. Along the walls are empty wooden crates, African drums and other cult paraphernalia, but most interesting is a large circular pit on the right side of the room, covered with a thick stone slab. Lawrence and Shark appear to hear human voices, wailing and crying and laughing, from beneath the slab. Considering their previous experience, they leave the slab on for now.

At the far end of this room there is a curtain hanging in a doorway, and on either side of that doorway are two thick wooden poles with leather buckled straps hanging on it. Most likely this is used to restrain people. The group slowly moves up to the curtain, weapons at the ready, when Dick suddenly spots a rotting human arm extend from behind the curtain. He unloads his shotgun and blasts away the curtain, as well as the head of an undead creature behind it. The creature was once human, but appears to have been disemboweled and had a very familiar looking rune carved in its forehead, after which it was brought back from the dead to fulfill a guard duty. Unfortunately for the group, the zombie has a buddy who is still standing. Shark is overcome with fear and flees away, after which Dick picks up his baseball bat to take a swing at the creature’s head. Then Elliot steps in and unloads his shotgun on the zombie’s head, downing it. Matthias in the meantime has been standing with his back to the events, cheering the group on, avoiding the creatures’ influence on his sanity already weakened by his excessive Thothish Chanting.

After Shark gets comforted by Matthias and Zasu and receives a complimentary handkerchief, the group goes back down into the chamber to search the alcove the zombies were guarding. Lawrence takes many pictures as they rifle through the following items:

- An extravagant [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/New York Images#Bloody Tongue Mask\|Bloody Tongue Mask]], also adorned with a mummified human tongue, probably belonging to *Mukunga*
- Robes made of many feathers and glittering fabrics
- Leather gloves with lion’s claws attached to it
- The book *Africa’s Dark Secrets*, which was stolen from the Harvard University Library
- A *modern marine chronometer*, set to GMT time (4 hours ahead of New York time)
- A small lockbox which is pried open to reveal personal effects and jewelry that can be linked back to the Forehead Carving Murder victims
- An ominous telegram, sent in early January from London ([[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM17] Telegram from White Jackal\|[AM17] Telegram from White Jackal]])
- Finally, in a corner under a dark cloth, they find the [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/New York/Ju-Ju Mask\|mask]]that Samuel Discrol had drawn in his madness. Proper investigation by Matthias and Dick determines that it’s made of a wood not known on Earth, and its stylistic features are similar to masks worn by the Yoruba tribe in rituals where they supposedly channel their gods.

The group decides to take a few items, but leave the most incriminating ones there for the police to find. As they are about to leave the basement to wait to ambush Silas, Lawrence is overcome with curiosity and states he wants to lift the slab from the pit. Dick stays with him out of loyalty, but looks the other way as the slab is lifted.

What Lawrence sees in a pit of around 3 meters deep, in which a thick worm-like mass of twitching muscles with sickening pulsing purple veins is slowly writhing around. What’s more: on this grotesque body are a myriad of human faces, around 18 all-together. The faces are crying, wailing, screaming, but otherwise seem unaware of Lawrence. Every now and then a face lays his eyes on Lawrence, after which it violently snaps its teeth in an attempt to reach Lawrence. It seems this is [[Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/New York Images#The Many-Faced God\|The Many-Faced God]] that the cultist was talking about. 

Lawrence fires a few bullets into the creature without any effect. Luckily Matthias had thought to bring a few bottles of strong liquor to create molotov cocktails. They throw the curtain and some wood from the crates on the creature, and set it ablaze. It screams, writhes, moans and ululates as it is burned to a crisp. As a thick, putrid smoke fills the basement, the group neatly resets the door and heads back up.

Dick heads to a phone booth and calls Lt. Poole, telling him to come to the Ju-Ju House immediately if he wants to catch the Forehead Carving Killers. Meanwhile they lay an ambush for Silas N’Kwane, who returns from his dinner not suspecting a thing. When he tries to open the door, he’s greeted with a Shark in the front and a Dick in the back. Matthias shoves a sock in his mouth, and they drag him inside making a citizen’s arrest.

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/New York/Session 8\|Session 8]]