---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 3.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/england/session-3/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Monday, February 2nd, 1925
The group exits the Blue Pyramid Club around midnight into foggy London, and Lawrence meets up with the mysterious bellydancer in an alley. She warns him to tread carefully around the Brotherhood, and not to openly ask questions like that: that could get him into serious trouble. She makes it known she wants the Brotherhood to be taken down, and wants to know if Lawrence and his buddies are up for the task. Lawrence affirms, though not strongly. She reveals that her boyfriend Badru was murdered by the Brotherhood last year, after he threatened a cult member in the club who got a bit too frisky with her.

The bellydancer informs Lawrence that the Brotherhood (ab)uses the Club as their de facto base of operations, and act like the place is theirs. *Zahra Shafik*, the luscious lady observed earlier that evening, is pointed out by the bellydancer as the leader of the Brotherhood and all members seem to answer to her. Abdul Nawisha, the Club’s owner, is terribly afraid of her but the bellydancer doesn’t know why.

When asked, the bellydancer doesn’t know who Edward Gavigan is nor does she know what the Penhew Foundation is. She does know Thomas Kinnery, Gavigan’s secretary, and calls him a weasel. Whenever Zahra Shafik is around, he hangs on her every word. When she’s not around, he parades around the Club like he’s the boss.

The bellydancer finally informs Lawrence that once a month at full moon, a truck stops by the Club and all the Brotherhood members enter the truck, which drives off in an eastern direction. She suspects the truck is heading out of the city but she doesn’t know where. Sometimes in the days before, the basement of the Club is unexpectedly locked and off-limits. The group realises it will be full moon in a week’s time.

Lawrence and the bellydancer say their goodbyes. She tells Lawrence her name is Anya, but refuses to give him her address. The group heads to the Savoy Hotel to get a good night’s rest. They find Elliot black out drunk behind the bar.

---

### Dateline: Tuesday, February 3rd, 1925
In the morning the group goes shopping at Shark’s suggestion to buy some protective gear. They all settle on some form of tough leather jerkin which can be worn casually under other clothes, which will provide some measure of protection against blades and claws. Matthias gets a full fencing armour for when the tough really gets going.

The group heads to the Penhew Foundation for their meeting with Edward Gavigan. Shark enters in his Kipper disguise. After some discussion about the state of cleanliness of the building they’re met by Thomas Kinnery who leads them into his office, which doubles as Gavigan’s antechamber. After a few minutes of waiting the door opens and they’re met by a tall, slender man in his 50s. Impeccably dressed and manicured, he introduces himself as Edward Gavigan and invites the group into his office. It’s a spacious office filled with a row of 3 built-in closets on the left wall, a large window on the far wall in front which Gavigan’s luxurious mahogany desk is positioned, and on the right wall hang two large oil paintings depicting the Egyptian pyramids and a view of the Nile Valley respectively. Some of the group members notice a floor safe on the far left side of the room with the door left ajar…

Gavigan invites them to sit and inquires about the nature of their expedition. Zasu immediately interjects with fanatical enthusiasm concerning pyramids, chakras and leylines, while Matthias spins a tale of how Egyptology recently gained his fascination and he is most interested in excavating the delta of the region rather than the more popular north-eastern part of the region. He embellishes his story by namedropping the 3rd Dynasty of Egypt, which Dick had uncovered was Gavigan’s field of interest from his carousing with Foundation employees in the Blue Pyramid Club. Gavigan is seemingly impressed by Matthias’ knowledge and plans. Talk turns to *Sir Aubrey Penhew*, founder of the Foundation and participant of the *Carlyle Expedition*. His loss is a great one to the archeological world, and Gavigan tells the group how Sir Aubrey was not only his close work relation, but also his academic mentor from an early age and a great friend. Matthias discerns that when talking about Sir Penhew, Gavigan seems to leave things unsaid and he has the feeling that Gavigan is not telling a full truth. The specifics of this elude Matthias unfortunately.

Gavigan becomes forward and brings up the Mask that the group presented yesterday to discussion. He tells the group that both they and he knows that that Mask is not of any South-American culture, and Matthias fesses up that they found the Mask in New York, in some artefact store, but that this also sparked a great interest in the African continent for them. Gavigan seems intrigued by this story.

The group decides to try a diversion to get a better look at the floor safe, and persuade Gavigan to take a group photo with them. While Lawrence positions the group and Gavigan away from the view of the safe, talking about lighting and composition, Dick stalks over to the safe and peeks inside. To his surprise it seems to be filled with stacks of one-pound notes, totalling at least 300 pounds: not a small wealth in these days. He also glimpses a photograph in a frame on Gavigan’s desk of a country estate, but time is too short to make out any details. To buy more time, Dick points Gavigan towards the open safe and while Gavigan closes it and embarrassedly mutters ‘one can never be too safe’, Dick takes a closer look. On the facade of the building, he can make out the words ‘*Misr House*’.

After the commotion has settled, Gavigan proposes a toast and opens one of the built-in cupboards on the left wall and produces a decanter and some glasses. He pours everyone a drop of rum except Shark, who politely declines because he doesn’t drink on duty. A long moment stretches as no one takes a first sip. Gavigan smiles and says ‘good’, after which he proceeds to take a drink of the rum. The rest follows. They are then escorted back to Thomas Kinnery who provides the group with the necessary paperwork to organise the expedition and enlist the Foundation’s support.

Finally, Dick pops into the office where he found his new friend Donald the day before, and gets a small tour of the Foundation. Most rooms are offices or library rooms, and the locked door in the back that Dick encountered the day before is identified as leading to a storage room. Dick goes out the back to see if he can look in through the windows, but suspiciously all windows are blocked by boxes and crates on the inside. Dick inquires about the basement, but he is informed it only holds the furnace room and coal storage.

At noon, the group leaves the Foundation for a cup of coffee. They don’t notice anyone following them, and they discuss their next move.

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 4\|Session 4]]