---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/New York/Session 2.md","permalink":"/masks-of-nyarlathotep/journals/new-york/session-2/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Friday, January 16th, 1925
The group reconvenes the next morning at the Hotel Chelsea for brunch, on Elliot’s invite. The group discusses the events of yesterday and pours over the clues they have found. With Jackson’s funeral planned for the afternoon of the next day, they decide to split up for some preliminary investigations.

Dick and Matthias pay a visit to Professor Anthony Cowles, who gave a lecture two days previous to which Jackson had a flyer ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM7] Handbill\|[AM7] Handbill]]). They find the robust Australian man in the Department of Anthropology in New York University, and discover he has an amazing Australian accent. Professor Cowles tells the fellows he’s never met Jackson Elias, nor consciously seen him, and doesn’t know whether Jackson was present at his lecture. He does mention that there are similarities between cults Jackson Elias has researched in his books, and a Polynesian cult called *the Cult of the Sand Bat* that he himself has investigated. He then proceeds to recount the lecture, including some slides which were taken by *Arthur MacWhirr* in *Western Australia* that show weathered monolithic blocks of stone that remind Dick and Matthias of the architecture they saw in the *ruins underneath Arkham*. 
[[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/New York Images#Professor Cowles' Slides\|Images of Professor Cowles' Slides]]

Arthur MacWhirr has unfortunately died from pneumonia. The slides, as well as Arthur MacWhirr’s diary, were given for academic purposes to professor Cowles by *Robert Mackenzie*, executor of the MacWhirr estate. The diary is unfortunately back home in Australia in the care of his friend *David Dodge*. Finally, Dick and Matthias ask Cowles if the rune carved on Jackson’s head is that of the Sand Bat. It’s not, but Cowles gives them a drawing of the [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/New York Images#Symbol of the Sand Bat\|Symbol of the Sand Bat]].

A summary of the lecture can be reread here: ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM15] Summary of Prof. Cowles' Lecture\|[AM15] Summary of Prof. Cowles' Lecture]])

*Elliot* decides to pay a visit to Jackson’s lawyer and friend, mister *Carlton Ramsey*. He finds Ramsey’s office closed, but the man present and in a mournful mood. Over bourbon and cigars, they reminisce about Jackson. Carlton tells Elliot that with regards to Jackson’s funeral and estate, Jackson has long since prepared, as if he suspected his own untimely ending one day. When asked if mr. Ramsey has more information that could relate to Jackson’s death and his research, he advises Elliot to visit *Jonah Kensington of Prospero House Publishing*, Jackson’s publisher. Carlton Ramsey bids Elliot farewell, but asks him to come by on monday afternoon for the reading of the will, as he is mentioned in it.

Elliot then visits Jonah Kensington at his publishing house. He finds the plump and rambunctious man in his office, and they start talking about Jackson. Jonah explains that he fears that one of the cults that Jackson has infiltrated and exposed must finally have taken revenge, or his latest project was even more dangerous than he expected. It seems that for the past 6 months, Jackson was obsessed with finding out the fate of the *Carlyle Expedition*. This expedition was supposedly dead, but Jackson appeared to have found clues to the contrary. After Jonah asks his assistant Gladys to fetch the correspondence from Jackson of the past few months, his facade starts to break and the man shows his heartbreak over Jackson’s death. Elliot is visibly uncomfortable.

From the files Gladys brings, the following stand out:
- A letter sent from Kenya in August 1924: [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM11] Kenya Letter from Jackson to Kensington\|[AM11] Kenya Letter from Jackson to Kensington]]
- A summary of notes sent over the course of the next few months from Kenya and Hong Kong: [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM12] Summarized Notes on the Carlyle Expedition\|[AM12] Summarized Notes on the Carlyle Expedition]]
- A last note sent from London in December 1924: [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM13] Jackson's Note from London\|[AM13] Jackson's Note from London]]

Jonah then goes on to mention how Jackson’s mental health seemed to deteriorate around the time he traveled to London, talking about a worldwide conspiracy of monstrous proportions, and that there was a timetable, and something about needing to go to Australia. Then, Jonah’s composure finally breaks and he starts sobbing, which Elliot takes as his cue to leave with copies of the notes.

Shark decides to stake out *Emerson Imports* ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM5] Emerson Imports Business Card\|[AM5] Emerson Imports Business Card]]) to see what’s up there. He finds the company on the docks of the Hudson River, and tries to casually scope the place out. Unfortunately, some dockworkers from the company notice him leering and proceed to ask him why he’s here and that he should leave. Shark tries to shoo the men off, but they don’t comply and punch Shark in the face. Shark then leaves Emerson Imports and drops by an old dock worker he knows, Johnny Lawrence, to ask him what he knows about Emerson Imports. As far as Johnny Lawrence knows, it’s a regular importing company with clients all over the city. Johnny has also never heard of *Silas N’Kwane*. Shark leaves the docks with a cold beer and a black eye.

Lawrence spends his day drinking at the Hotel Chelsea, but at one point gets up to his task of the day: call the warden of Sing Sing Prison to schedule a meeting with *Hilton Adams*, stating journalistic interest as the reason. Warden Lawes agrees to a meeting with Hilton Adams on the afternoon of Tuesday the 20th, and mentions that another reporter by the name of *Shosenberg* has already scheduled a meeting for the morning of that day. Lawrence goes searching through newspapers to see if he can find out more about this Shosenberg, and quickly finds that *Rebecca Shosenberg* wrote an article about Jackson’s death in the New York Times ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM9] Jackson Elias Murdered!\|[AM9] Jackson Elias Murdered!]]).

The group reconvenes in Hotel Chelsea for dinner and share their notes and experiences. They see a parallel between the stories of the Cult of the Sand Bat and the stories Jackson heard in Kenya. They decide there’s not much more to do in the evening, but that their next priority should be to find out more about Roger Carlyle by contacting his sister, *Erica Carlyle*. After calling the estate, they are forwarded to the family’s lawyer *Bradley Grey*, who will meet with them on the morning of Monday the 19th to see what the group wants and if they will be allowed to meet with Ms. Carlyle. The rest of the evening, the group reads newspaper articles about the Carlyle Expedition from 1919 and 1920, uncovered by Dick.

[[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/Carlyle Expedition Papers\|Carlyle Expedition Papers]]

The group retires for the night, but not before Shark does a drive-by by Emerson Imports. He sees nothing of note. The group gets some well-deserved rest, before having to attend Jackson’s funeral the following day.

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/New York/Session 3\|Session 3]]