---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ttrpg/call-of-cthulhu/masks-of-nyarlathotep/players/journals/new-york/session-3/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Saturday, January 17th, 1925
The day of Jackson’s funeral. While the group gets ready for the service in the morning, Dick decides to take a trip to the docks to check out Emerson Imports. He talks to the owner, Arthur Emerson, who tells him that Jackson came to visit the company on the 14th, the day before he died. He in particular wanted to know if the company had any connections in *Mombasa, Kenya*. Emerson revealed that his company is the U.S. agent for Kenya based exporter *Ahja Singh*. Mr. Singh’s exports - which consist of a variety of African art, sculptures, drums, and other assorted bric-a-brac - have only one known New York account: an African art shop in Harlem called *the Ju-Ju House*, which is owned by *Silas N’Kwane*. This is also information that he gave to Jackson. Arthur Emerson gives Dick the address of the Ju-Ju House, and Dick takes his farewell.

The group piles in Talulah and heads to Cypress Hills Cemetery for Jackson’s funeral. They find a small group of journalists clustered at the entrance, and then a chapel that’s sparsely filled. In the front row, the group spots Jonah Kensington, Carlton Ramsey, and a young woman who introduces herself as Willa Sligh, Carlton’s niece. Also present in the chapel is Lt. Martin Poole, who has a short chat with Dick and indicates he wants to talk after the service. Lawrence checks out the journalists and spots a young enthusiastic reporter who turns out to be Rebecca Shosenberg. After a quick chat, it seems Rebecca is very interested in the case and has more questions for Lawrence after the service.

The group takes their place: Matthias, Zasu and Lawrence sit in the front row, Dick is sat a bit apart, and Shark decides to sit near the back so he has a good overview of all the attendees. He notices two more people come in before the service starts: a young Caucasian lady in an all-black gown with a black hat and black veil who is crying loudly and extravagantly, who takes her place on the front row as well. The last person to enter is a tall, muscular and shaven-headed African man, dressed in plain workman’s clothes, who sits not too far in front of Shark.

The service starts, and the priest says a few words on Jackson, after which a moment of silence is held. Then Carlton Ramsey gives a eulogy about his good friend Jackson Elias. When asked if anyone else would like to say a few words, Zasu stands up and takes the stage. She gives a stunning performance, in which she denounces cults as evil and proclaims that she will bring down those who murdered Jackson. The group takes a good look at the attendees to see if anyone is particularly angered by this speech. They find the people hard to read, except the overtly mourning young lady, who seems angered more by the fact that Zasu stole her spotlight in making a speech rather than the contents of the speech itself.

The service ends and most of the attendees make a quick exit. Shark, on a whim, cuts off the African man and tries to make small talk. The man is short and succinct in his conversation, but does introduce himself as Mukunga. He claims he doesn’t know Jackson Elias, but always finds it a sad day when an African brother is murdered in the city, so he attended to pay his respects. Shark discerns that there is a deeper meaning to Mukunga’s attendance, and he also detects a certain hardness to the man. After some more small talk, Mukunga reveals that he works at the docks and has to get back to work now. Shark offers to drive the man, but he prefers to walk. Shark exchanges a quick look with Dick, and through brotherly assurance he decides to tail Mukunga. After a long walk from Brooklyn to Harlem, Shark follows Mukunga all the way to the *Ju-Ju House*.

Meanwhile at the chapel, several post-funeral conversations are held.

Zasu strikes up a conversation with the young dilettante, who introduces herself as Julia Lake, an up and coming actress, currently performing on off-off-broadway but hopefully soon on off-broadway. She claims, although they have never met, she and Jackson had a spiritual relationship that persists still after his death, and that Jackson must have been struck down by demons who were burned by the pure flame of their love for each other. Zasu makes some cutting remarks, and receives some in return, and deduces that this lady is equal parts attention-seeking and crazy. She receives Julia’s business card.

Matthias turns towards Willa and Carlton and they comment on the service. As Carlton mentioned something about the Peru adventure in his eulogy, Matthias wants to pry and see how much was revealed by Jackson. It turned out that no supernatural details were shared, putting Matthias at ease. Carlton ends the conversation with an invitation to Matthias and the rest of the group to attend him on monday afternoon for the reading of the will, as they’re all mentioned in it. In fact: Jackson came by Carlton’s office only the day before he died to change his will, as if he knew something was coming…

Lawrence continues his conversation with Rebecca Shosenberg, who reveals that the cases of the Forehead-Carving Murders have interested her since they began. She explains that she thinks that the arrest of Hilton Adams several months ago was odd: he was supposedly caught standing over a victim, throwing away a bloody knife. However, all the previous murders were done without a trace or any witnesses, so why is this one so obvious? In addition, Hilton Adams was a decorated war veteran, has no criminal record nor any connections to known criminals, and he was widely regarded as an upstanding citizen in his neighbourhood. In fact, Hilton has told Rebecca that he was out patrolling that night, because there were tales of disappearances in Harlem. Something that is corroborated by his wife and friends. Rebecca feels there’s something more to the story, and she invites Lawrence to come by her desk at the **New York Times** on Monday morning to talk more about it.

Dick reconvenes with Lt. Martin Poole to talk more about the case, but quickly learns that the case is already closed, much to Poole’s dismay. Apparently when Poole got to the station yesterday morning, he found out that Captain Robson had taken over control of the case, stating that since the other Forehead-Carving Murders were under his jurisdiction, this case falls under it as well. Quickly after, Robson dismissed the carving on Jackson’s head as being a weak imitation and much unlike the other ones, and concluded that the murder was simply a robbery gone wrong with the robbers trying to copy the carving to throw the police off their tracks. Poole finds this odd, as he took a photograph of Jackson’s carving to Dr. Lemming - who advised in the other cases as well - who claimed that the rune was similar to the others. Poole also wonders why Robson is ignoring the witnesses who claim that at the time of the murder, three men were seen running down the fire escape and proceed to have a wild car chase with gunfire, after which a man is found dead in an alley near Lennox Avenue in Harlem.

After some coercing and real-talk from Dick’s side, Poole reveals that he has tried to get the case reopened and do more investigations, but has been met with a lot of resistance from Robson himself. Poole has heard rumours before that Robson might be corrupt, taking bribes from criminals to look the other way, and although this doesn’t prove anything it definitely fits with that narrative. Poole also tells Dick that the dead man in an alley was *Colm Doyle*, an Irish immigrant known to the police as a wastrel, reefer addict, and petty thief. Poole finally asks to hire Dick, on a personal title, to investigate Robson and to see if he can find evidence of corruption. Dick accepts.

The group reconvenes for dinner at the Hotel Chelsea and discusses their findings and plans. It seems the Ju-Ju House is a dangerous place and warrants more investigation. They entertain the idea of Dick and Zasu disguising themselves to take a look in the shop, but ultimately park that idea because they’d be in deep trouble if they were found out. Shark mentions he knows a guy - Slick Mick - who could break into the Ju-Ju House to check it out, but they park this idea as well because further investigations could be harmed if it was found out that the Ju-Ju House was broken into.

In the end, Dick, Shark and Zasu decide to do an evening stake-out first. Zasu prepares some cartinis to enjoy, and Shark formulates a contingency plan in case they’re seen, in which he and Zasu are passionate lovers in a car (with Dick in the backseat as…?). During the stake-out, Zasu informs the brothers about her wedding dress in full detail. What they see during the stake-out is a dark and quiet court, with no activity going on around the Ju-Ju House except a drunk who stumbles in the alley to continue drinking there. After a while, however, they notice that with the frequency the drunk is bringing the bottle to his mouth, the bottle should be long empty by now. Dick slithers out of the car and sneaks through the shadows to the alley to have a closer look. He spots that the drunk is actually well aware of his surroundings, and seems to be looking around as a guard. Additionally Dick’s elven eyes spot a large knife on his belt, similar to Jackson’s murderers. When looking closer at the court, Dick notices a very faint light on in the Ju-Ju House, as well as that the building next to the Ju-Ju House seems abandoned and boarded up. He sneaks back to the car and they end their stake-out, but not before driving by the parallel street to find that the front entrance of the abandoned building is accessible from there, but the Ju-Ju House has no entrance on that street.

---

### Dateline: Sunday, January 18th, 1925
The group reconvenes in the morning for breakfast at the Hotel Chelsea and discuss their plan for the day. They briefly consider going to church in Harlem to ask around about the Ju-Ju House, but realise they’d stick out like a sore, white thumb. They then get to talk about Rebecca Shosenberg, and fear her life might be in danger as well. They call her home number but find no one answering.

Feeling like there’s not much action to be undertaken on a Sunday in New York, they decide to all head up to the Harvard University Library to meet with *Miriam Atwright*, whom Jackson wrote to ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM6] Letter from Miriam Atwright\|[AM6] Letter from Miriam Atwright]]). She receives the group and tells that Jackson asked her about a book called *Africa’s Dark Sects*, a book supposedly written by Nigel Blackwell, a merchant’s son and amateur explorer who traveled Africa and had an interest in cults and sects with violent and gruesome rituals. There was also mention of the *Cult of the Bloody Tongue*. Ms. Atwright recounts that the cult worships a terrible god called The Bloody Tongue, who is humanoid in shape but has a long red tentacle, or tongue, for a head. According to the book, the Bloody Tongue revels in chaos and destruction, and is reported to feast on its followers. The home of the god is said to be the *Mountain of the Black Wind*, which is a mountain also mentioned in Jackson’s Kenya notes ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM12] Summarized Notes on the Carlyle Expedition\|[AM12] Summarized Notes on the Carlyle Expedition]]).

Unfortunately, a few months before Jackson inquired about this book it had mysteriously disappeared. There was a horrible stench one day in the library, most prominent in the section where the book was, and they found the book had just simply disappeared. Matthias goes on a whim and gives Ms. Atwright 5 dollars to go to the zoo and to the bat enclosure, to smell around and see if the smell of guano is similar to the smell that was present in the library at that time. Atwright is surprised, but accepts.

Considering the theory of a global cult up to no good, the group decides to make use of the library to find out if there are any other cults with similar customs or gods. Matthias, with his excellent academic skills, finds mention of the *Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh*, an Egyptian based cult that reportedly kills their victims with a club with a large spike driven through it - similar to the bat-teeth clubs that the *Cult of the Sand Bat* seem to use. The group remarks that the Carlyle Expedition also visited Egypt.

After this incredibly academic day, the group piles back into Talulah and back home. They have another busy day ahead of them tomorrow!

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/New York/Session 4\|Session 4]]