---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ttrpg/call-of-cthulhu/masks-of-nyarlathotep/players/journals/new-york/session-4/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Monday, January 19th, 1925
In the morning, Dick and Matthias meet up with *Bradley Grey* at his law firm of Dunstan, Whittleby and Grey. Bradley Grey is lawyer of the Carlyle Estate, and any and all official requests to meet with Erica Carlyle pass through him. They meet in a lavish office, and Dick proceeds to lay out the story that Erica might be in mortal danger from a conspiracy that seems to relate to the Carlyle Expedition, and that this conspiracy has recently claimed a victim in Jackson Elias. Furthermore they present Jackson’s notes that claim that Jack Brady was seen alive in Hong Kong, and suggest that Roger Carlyle might be alive as well. Matthias further tries to embellish their story by mentioning his family name, and that his uncle Heinrich von Zinkelfurt is a client of the law firm as well.

Bradley Grey suggests that, if a murder conspiracy surrounding Erica is afoot, certainly the police must be notified. Dick and Matthias then go on to explain that the police are not to be trusted, as they believe the police force might be involved in the conspiracy as well. After Dick pushes his arguments, Bradley Grey unfortunately remains unconvinced and is even affronted by the allegations that New York’s finest in blue might be involved in such heinous things. He does not grant the investigators a meeting with Erica Carlyle, and orders them gone from the premises before he calls security. With the slamming of the door, any official route to Erica Carlyle is now unfortunately closed.

Meanwhile, Lawrence meets up with Rebecca Shosenberg at the New York Times. She has laid out all her notes on all the Forehead-Carving Murders, and systematically talks through them. The murder victims range from Jewish lawyer Solomon Discroll to African-American unemployed Ambrose Hoyt, to even a foreign sailor whose ship had recently docked in New York. There is nothing to tie these victims together with regards to age, race or social status, save that they were all murdered in Harlem - with the exception of Jackson Elias. Lawrence discerns that none of the murders happened in the vicinity of the *Ju-Ju House*.

Rebecca continues that at first the murders were not connected, but when connections were made after the 3rd victim, the case was transferred to Captain Robson of the 14th Precinct. She then goes on to explain that, from interviews she has done herself, it seems that the police put in hardly any effort to investigate any following murders, until they caught Hilton Adams supposedly red-handed at the scene of the 8th murder. She recounts how she doesn’t believe Hilton Adams was the actual murderer because of his outstanding social standing, and that he was in fact patrolling the streets himself. Rebecca concludes that at best Captain Robson is completely incompetent, and at worst is corrupt and has framed an innocent man.

Lawrence goes on to ask some more details about the previous victims, and learns that Rebecca can get him in touch with the family of the 1st victim, as well as that the murdered sailor’s boat hailed from *Kenya*. When Lawrence asks about any connection with African art stores, Rebecca mentions that Millie Adams, Hilton’s wife, has spoken to her about an art store that Hilton mentioned only days before getting arrested. Rebecca will get in touch with Millie and try to arrange for her to meet the investigators for further inquiries. Rebecca will get back to Lawrence with the requested information as soon as possible.

The group reconvenes for lunch, and considers other ways of contacting Erica Carlyle. They muse about Lawrence sending her a letter using a New York Times envelope, but no concrete plans are made.

In the afternoon, the group moves to Carlton Ramsey’s office for the reading of Jackson’s Will. After enjoying a drop of bourbon, Carlton reads Jackson’s final will, updated the day before he died:

> _“I, Jackson Barnabas Elias, of sound mind and body, willfully and voluntarily make this declaration to be my last will in the event of my death._
> _First, I bestow full power of attorney to Carlton Ramsey, including complete authority to liquidate any and all assets I have. Mr. Ramsey is instructed to use these assets to create and manage a fund. Due to a generous donation from a certain Peruvian Ziggurat, this fund should be well-stocked. Pause for laughter._
> _It is my dearest request that my good friends Chip Booker, Matthias von Zinkelfurt, Zasu Ziel, Lawrence Riverdale, Jesse Pinganelli and Forswaithe Galavant make use of this fund to continue my investigation of the Carlyle Expedition, for I believe it is the biggest conspiracy I have ever imagined._
> _Should they want to request or hire additional help in this investigation, they must do so with the utmost discretion and choose their companions to their best judgments. In my personal opinion, I’d like to suggest the keen mind of Dick Booker as well suited for this endeavour._
> _As for my friend Elliot ‘Ready’ Young, I want to give him the opportunity to not live through my adventures second-hand alone, and give him the opportunity to embark on this adventure together with abovementioned investigators, should he wish to do so.”_

Carlton goes on to explain that unfortunately Forswaithe Galavant was off adventuring somewhere and he was unable to get a hold of him. Similarly, Jesse Pinganelli seems to have disappeared after finishing his medical degree. The group ponders in which opium den he might be found.

Carlton continues that aforementioned fund, which consists of a total of $50.000, can be used for travel, accomodations, living costs, equipment purchases, medical bills, legal bills, and any other costs accrued in the investigation of the Carlyle Expedition. Any receipts can be presented to Carlton for reimbursement, but any expense not related to the investigation will not be reimbursed. Finally, Carlton is to act as a central point of contact, and he will assist in any affairs appropriate where possible.

Carlton then presents the group with a final note Jackson left for the group, to be read in the event of his death. ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM10] Jackson's Final Note\|[AM10] Jackson's Final Note]]).

After the reading of the will, the investigators head to a café to ponder their next move. They decide they need to look into Captain Robson more as well. Lawrence mentions he knows of a contact in the NYPD from his earlier reporting days: Commissioner Marvin Johnson. For some reason, the mention of Commissioner Johnson angers Dick greatly, who smashes his glass. Apparently there is some history there from the time that Dick was a police officer, but he is unwilling to divulge more.

Lawrence and Matthias end up waiting outside One Police Plaza for Marvin Johnson to finish work, and they intercept him. Johnson greets Lawrence cordially, and accepts their invitation for a drink - his wife can wait with dinner. Over drinks, Lawrence subtly mentions that there might be a reporter who might have a story on Captain Robson who might be corrupt. Johnson at first is hard to convince that any one of New York’s Finest might be corrupt, but after a slightly threatening argument from Lawrence that it would be a shame if such a thing came out in the news papers before the NYPD has looked into it themselves, Johnson is convinced to have a talk with Robson. They finish their drinks and agree to meet back on Wednesday at the same time.

Having no more avenues to pursue for the day, the group retires to their respective homes and prepare for their meeting with Hilton Adams the following day.

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/New York/Session 5\|Session 5]]