---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ttrpg/call-of-cthulhu/masks-of-nyarlathotep/players/journals/new-york/session-8/","tags":["TTRPG/Games/MoN"]}
---

### Dateline: Friday, January 23rd, 1925
Lt. Poole arrives at the Ju-Ju House, and the group springs their findings and theories on him: the Ju-Ju House is home to a violent gang responsible for the Forehead-Carving Murders and many disappearances in Harlem over the years, and they have paid off Robson and the 14th Precinct to stay under the radar and frame an innocent man for the crimes! Poole feels overwhelmed and somewhat sceptical, but then the investigators show him the basement.

Shocked by the decaying, headless corpses in the basement room, Poole takes careful stock of the many instruments of torture and personal affects of the Forehead-Carving Murder Victims that can be found here. Poole asks what’s in the pit beneath the stone slab, and Dick operates the winch to reveal a mass of charred human flesh scattered with a myriad of bones and skulls. Poole becomes visibly ill as he counts no less than 18 human skulls in the remains. As the group heads upstairs, they present Poole with the gathered evidence of police corruption they’ve found. Finally, the group explains that the gang’s mastermind, Mukunga, will be at the Ju-Ju House the following evening.

Poole is staggered by the amount of evidence and findings. He arrests Silas N’Kwane, who threatens that they’ll be ripped apart and eaten alive by the Bloody Tongue, and gets started on calling reinforcements, collecting evidence, and consulting with Commissioner Johnson on the corruption of Robson. The group gently enforces the idea of quickly releasing the falsely-accused Hilton Adams from death row. They feel like they’ve left the case in good hands, and retreats to the Chelsea for celebratory drinks.

---

### Dateline: Saturday, January 24th, 1925
In the morning, Dick goes to check on the police activity in the Ju-Ju House where they’re preparing to ambush Mukunga in the evening. Soon after the group piles into Talulah and heads to their final New York appointment: a meeting with Erica Carlyle. Half an hour north of the city they find the grand Carlyle Estate. They’re seated in a sitting room and provided with drinks, and shortly after Erica enters the room. She’s traded her resplendent gown from the auction for a pair of slacks and a white shirt, while smoking a hand-rolled cigarette. Big buff Joe Corey is right behind her. She demands to know more about their claim of Jack Brady being alive. The group goes on to explain the situation with Jackson Elias and the connection to a murderous cult, and that Jackson had found out that Brady might be alive in *Hong Kong*. Erica goes on to explain that, if Jack Brady is alive in Hong Kong, her brother might be as well, for Brady is like a loyal dog who would never leave Roger’s side.

The group asks for more information about Roger Carlyle, and Erica explains the following:
- Roger was always weak of mind and unstable, and it’s a miracle he even managed to finish high school, but this intensified after their parents died
- The pressure of leading the family company was too much for Roger and he couldn’t handle it. Erica tried to help him, but he felt like he needed to do it all by himself and just spiralled into madness
- Things finally went out of control when Roger met a woman who called herself ‘*Bunny*’ in 1918. This woman, whose racial heritage affronted Erica, played into Roger’s insanity for her own, unknown goals, and Erica feels she ultimately forced Roger to undertake his expedition in the first place. Roger was entirely infatuated with her, calling her names like ‘My Goddess’, ‘My Priestess’ and ‘Anastasia’.
- Apparently, this ‘Bunny’ also came along on the expedition, but Roger carefully kept this out of the media. Erica doesn’t know whether she was found among the dead in Kenya, as the officials there told her that only a multitude of scattered body parts were found

The group asks Erica if she wants them to look for Roger. Erica is doubtful: somewhere she feels that maybe it’s just better for him to be wherever he is, rather than return home and into a world that expects too much from him. The group plays into Erica feelings of guilt for accepting her brother’s death perhaps a bit too soon, and after some persuading Erica agrees to the group looking into Roger’s whereabouts for her. She’ll give them a fitting financial recompense as well as an extension of her influence should the group ever find themselves in trouble abroad.

Finally, when asked for any more information on Roger and/or his personal affects, Erica states that Roger was doing business with some Frenchman named *Besart* in Egypt ([[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Clues/New York Clues#[AM1] Letter from Warren Besart\|[AM1] Letter from Warren Besart]]). There are no personal affects of him here, but Erica does inform them that Roger spent a lot of time in the estate’s library perusing old tomes. The group is allowed to view and borrow these.

Joe Corey leads the group to the magnificent Carlyle Library, and leads them to a hidden safe behind a thick collection of Poe’s work. Inside the safe are four old books.

- First, the group finds a version of [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/New York/The Pnakotic Manuscripts\|TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/New York/The Pnakotic Manuscripts]], of which they already own a copy. A quick flicking through the pages reveals that this version has some sections that their version doesn’t, and vice versa. They also find hand-written notes in the margin by Roger Carlyle, such as “City of the Great Race??” and “A means to reach the mind of the Observer?”. Matthias’ excellent study of their Pnakotic Manuscripts has taught him that the Observer might refer to the race of the Yith: a supposedly alien race that came to Earth in prehistoic times and giften early human precursor races with intelligence. The group also finds some [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Images/New York Images#Image in the Pnakotic Manuscripts\|disturbing images in the manuscripts]].
- Second, the group finds a book in French titled [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/New York/Selections de Livre d'Ivon\|TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/New York/Selections de Livre d'Ivon]]. Matthias knows some rudimentary French but it will take time to reveal this book’s contents.
- Third, the group find a hand-written collection of poetry titled [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/New York/Amongst the Stones\|TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/New York/Amongst the Stones]]. This appears to be an individual work specifically made for Roger by someone named ‘Justin’. This name outrages Zasu. Erica later suggests that this might be Justin Geoffry, a friend of Roger when he studied in California. She does not know his whereabouts but can set her people to investigate.
- Last, the group finds a diary titled [[TTRPG/Call of Cthulhu/Masks of Nyarlathotep/Players/Tomes and Artefacts/New York/Life as a God\|Life as a God]], which tells the tale of a man in service of the Black Pharaoh.

The group leaves the Carlyle Estate and head back to New York. That evening, as an unsuspecting Mukunga walks into a trap in the Ju-Ju House, chaos erupts as he resists arrest and tries to attack police officers with a knife. He is shot thrice and succumbs to his wounds, along with several other zealous cultists. Lawrence uses his journalistic connections to spin the story to that of brave NYPD police officers, led by heroic Commissioner Marvin Johnson, capturing a murderous gang who had paid off a corrupt 14th Precinct to perform their heinous crimes and frame an innocent man, omitting the cult angle that would throw a disrepute over Harlem.

Afterwards, Dick confronts Marvin Johnson. They get into a short and tense conversation, where Dick makes it known that if it wasn’t for him, Johnson wouldn’t have anything. Johnson returns an irate comment about a woman named Martha. The two leave each other fuming.

Having saved the city of New York from the Cult of the Bloody Tongue, the group sets their eyes abroad and ask Carlton Ramsey to make arrangements for travel to England. Carlton gets right on it, and suggests that the group visit an old friend of Jackson while they’re there: *Mickey Mahoney*, chief editor of The Scoop.

Over the weekend, everyone packs their bags, Matthias and Zasu put a hold on their wedding plans, Elliot says goodbye to his wife and kids, Shark says goodbye to Talulah, and on Monday, January 26th, 1925, the group sets sail for England on *The Laurentides*.

##### Read on: [[Masks of Nyarlathotep/Journals/England/Session 1\|Session 1 (England)]]